C

1. C is the third letter of the English alphabet. It is from the
Latin letter C, which in old Latin represented the sounds of k, and g
(in go); its original value being the latter. In Anglo-Saxon words,
or Old English before the Norman Conquest, it always has the sound of
k. The Latin C was the same letter as the Greek got it from the
Phoenicians. The English name of C is from the Latin name ce, and was
derived, probably, through the French. Etymologically C is related to
g, h, k, q, s (and other sibilant sounds). Examples of these
relations are in L. acutus, E. acute, ague; E. acrid, eagar; L.
cornu, E. horn; E. cat, kitten; E. coy, quiet; L. circare, OF.
cerchier, E. search.

Note: See Guide to Pronunciation, t\'c5 221-228.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: (a) The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which has
neither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note of
the relative minor scale of the same (b) C after the clef is the mark
of common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths or
crotchets); for alla breve time it is written (c) The "C clef," a
modification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, abows
that line to be middle C.

3. As a numeral, C stands for Latin centum or 100, CC for 200, etc. C
spring, a spring in the form of the letter C.

CAABA
Ca*a"ba, n. Etym: [Ar. ka'ban, let, a square building, fr. ka'b cube]

Defn: The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all
Mohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.]

Note: The Caaba is situated in Mecca, a city of Arabia, and contains
a famous black stone said to have been brought from heaven. Before
the time of Mohammed, the Caaba was an idolatrous temple, but it has
since been the chief sanctuary and object of pilgrimage of the
Mohammedan world.

CAADA
Ca*ña"da, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less
frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.]

CAAS
Caas, n. sing. & pl.

Defn: Case. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAATINGA
Caa*tin"ga, n. [Tupi caa-tinga white forest.] (Phytogeography)

Defn: A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found in
areas of small rainfall in Brazil.

CAB
Cab, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cabriolet.]

1. A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public
vehicle. "A cab came clattering up." Thackeray.

Note: A cab may have two seats at right to the driver's seat, and a
door behind; or one seat parallel to the driver's, with the entrance
from the side or front. Hansom cab. See Hansom.

2. The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his
station. Knight.

CAB
Cab, n. Etym: [Heb. gab, fr. qabab to hollow.]

Defn: A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37)
pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25.

CABAL
Ca*bal", n. Etym: [F. cabale cabal, cabala LL. cabala cabala, fr.
Heb. qabbaleh reception, tradition, mysterious doctrine, fr. qabal to
take or receive, in Piël qibbel to abopt (a doctrine).]

1. Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala [Obs.] Hakewill.

2. A secret. [Obs.] "The measuring of the temple, a cabal found out
but lately." B. Jonson.

3. A number of persons united in some close design, usually to
promote their private views and interests in church or state by
intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a
junto.

Note: It so happend, by a whimsical coincidence, that in 1671 the
cabinet consisted of five persons, the initial letters of whose names
made up the word cabal; Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham, Ashley, and
Lauderdale. Macaulay.

4. The secret artifices or machinations of a few persons united in a
close design; in intrigue.
By cursed cabals of women. Dryden.
Syn. - Junto; intrigue; plot; combination; conspiracy.
 -- Cabal, Combination, Faction. An association for some purpose
considered to be bad is the idea common to these terms. A combination
is an organized union of individuals for mutual support, in urging
their demands or resisting the claims of others, and may be good or
bad according to circumstances; as, a combiniation of workmen or of
employers to effect or to prevent a chang in prices. A cabal is a
secret association of a few individuals who seek by cunning practices
to obtain office and power. A faction is a larger body than a cabal,
employed for selfish purposes in agitating the community and working
up an excitement with a view to change the existing order of things.
"Selfishness, insubordination, and laxity of morals give rise to
combinations, which belong particularly to the lower orders of
society. Restless, jealous, ambitious, and little minds are ever
forming cabals. Factions belong especially to free governments, and
are raised by busy and turbulent spirits for selfish porposes".
Crabb.

CABAL
Ca*bal", v. i. [int. & p. p. Caballed; p. pr. & vb. n. Caballing].
Etym: [Cf. F. cabaler.]

Defn: To unite in a small party to promote private views and
interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.
Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden.

CABALA
Cab"a*la, n. Etym: [LL. See Cabal, n.]

1. A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the
Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediæval Christians, which
treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence. It
assumed that every letter, word, number, and accent of Scripture
contains a hidden sense; and it teaches the methods of interpretation
for ascertaining these occult meanings. The cabalists pretend even to
foretell events by this means.

2. Secret science in general; mystic art; mystery.

CABALISM
Cab"a*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cabalisme.]

1. The secret science of the cabalists.

2. A superstitious devotion to the mysteries of the religion which
one professes. [R] Emerson.

CABALIST
Cab"a*list, n. Etym: [Cf.F. cabaliste.]

Defn: One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish
traditions. "Studious cabalists." Swift.

CABALISTIC; CABALISTICAL
Cab`a*lis"tic, Cab`a*lis"tic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an
occult meaning; mystic.
The Heptarchus is a cabalistic of the first chapter of Genesis.
Hallam.

CABALISTICALLY
Cab`a*lis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cabalistic manner.

CABALIZE
Cab"a*lize, v. i. Etym: [Cf.F. cabaliser.]

Defn: To use cabalistic language. [R] Dr. H. More.

CABALLER
Ca*bal"ler, n.

Defn: One who cabals.
A close caballer and tongue-valiant lord. Dryden.

CABALLERIA
Ca`bal*le*ri"a, n. [Sp. See Caballero.]

Defn: An ancient Spanish land tenure similar to the English knight's
fee; hence, in Spain and countries settled by the Spanish, a land
measure of varying size. In Cuba it is about 33 acres; in Porto Rico,
about 194 acres; in the Southwestern United States, about 108 acres.

CABALLERO
Ca`bal*le"ro, n. [Sp. Cf. Cavalier.]

Defn: A knight or cavalier; hence, a gentleman.

CABALLINE
Cab"al*line, a. Etym: [L.caballinus, fr. caballus a nag. Cf.
Cavalier.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a horse.
 -- n.

Defn: Caballine aloes. Caballine aloes, an inferior and impure kind
of aloes formerly used in veterinary practice; -- called also horse
aloes.
 -- Caballine spring, the fountain of Hippocrene, on Mount Helicon; -
- fabled to have been formed by a stroke from the foot of the winged
horse Pegasus.

CABALLO
Ca*bal"lo (ka*väl"yo; 220), n. [Written also cavallo.] [Sp., fr. L.
caballus a nag. See Cavalcade.]

Defn: A horse. [Sp. Amer.]

CABARET
Cab"a*ret, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed. [Obs. as an
English word.]

CABAS
Ca*bas", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flat
workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Bronté.

CABASSOU
Ca*bas"sou, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and
X. hispidus); the tatouay. [Written also Kabassou.]

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, n. Etym: [OE. cabage, fr. F. cabus headed (of cabbages),
chou cobus headed cabbage, cabbage head; cf. It. capuccio a little
head, cappuccio cowl, hood, cabbage, fr. capo head, L. caput, or fr.
It. cappa cape. See Chiff, Cape.] (Bot.)

1. An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild
Brassica oleracea of Europe. The common cabbage has a compact head of
leaves. The cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc., are sometimes
classed as cabbages.

2. The terminal bud of certain palm trees, used, like, cabbage, for
food. See Cabbage tree, below.

3. The cabbage palmetto. See below. Cabbage aphis (Zoöl.), a green
plant-louse (Aphis brassicæ) which lives upon the leaves of the
cabbage.
 -- Cabbage Beetle (Zoöl.), a small, striped flea-beetle (Phyllotreta
vittata) which lives, in the larval state, on the roots, and when
adult, on the leaves, of cabbage and other cruciferous plants.
 -- Cabbage butterfly (Zoöl.), a white butterfly (Pieris rapæ of both
Europe and America, and the Allied P. oleracea, a native American
species) which, in the larval state, devours the leaves of the
cabbage and the turnip. See Cabbage worm, below.
 -- Cabbage Fly (Zoöl.), a small two-winged fly (Anthomyia brassicæ),
which feeds, in the larval or maggot state, on the roots of the
cabbage, often doing much damage to the crop.
 -- Cabbage head, the compact head formed by the leaves of a cabbage;
-- contemptuously or humorously, and colloquially, a very stupid and
silly person; a numskull.
 -- Cabbage palmetto, a species of palm tree (Sabal Palmetto) found
along the coast from North Carolina to Florida.
 -- Cabbage rose (Bot.), a species of rose (Rosa centifolia) having
large and heavy blossoms.
 -- Cabbage tree, Cabbage palm, a name given to palms having a
terminal bud called a cabbage, as the Sabal Palmetto of the United
States, and the Euterpe oleracea and Oreodoxa oleracea of the West
Indies.
 -- Cabbage worm (Zoöl.), the larva of several species of moths and
butterfies, which attacks cabbages. The most common is usully the
larva of a white butterfly. See Cabbage Butterfly, above. The cabbage
cutworms, which eat off the stalks or young plants during the night,
are the larvæ of several species of moths, of the genus Agrotis. See
Cutworm.
 -- Sea cabbage.(Bot.) (a) Sea kale (b). The original Plant (Brassica
oleracea), from which the cabbage, cauliflower, , broccoli, etc.,
have been derived by cultivation.
 -- Thousand-headed cabbage. See Brussels sprouts.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, v. i.

Defn: To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce
cabbage. Johnson.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, v. i. [imp. & p.p Cabbaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cabbaging (.]
Etym: [F.cabasser, fr. OF. cabas theft; cf. F. cabas basket, and OF.
cabuser to cheat.]

Defn: To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after
cutting out a garment; to pilfer.
Your tailor . . . cabbages whole yards of cloth. Arbuthnot.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, n.

Defn: Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out
garments.

CABBLER
Cab"bler, n.

Defn: One who works at cabbling.

CABBLING
Cab"bling, n. (Metal)

Defn: The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought
iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and
wrought into bar iron.

CABECA; CABESSE
Ca*be"ça, Ca*besse", n. Etym: [Pg. cabeça, F. cabesse.]

Defn: The finest kind of silk received from India.

CABER
Ca"ber, n. Etym: [Gael]

Defn: A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of
strength.

CABEZON
Cab`e*zon", n. Etym: [Sp., properly, big head. Cf. Cavesson.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the
sculpin.

CABIAI
Cab"i*ai, n. Etym: [Native South American name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The capybara. See Capybara.

CABIN
Cab"in, n. Etym: [OF. caban, fr. W. caban booth, cabin, dim. of cab
cot, tent; or fr. F. cabane, cabine, LL. cabanna, perh. from the
Celtic.]

1. A cottage or small house; a hut. Swift.
A hunting cabin in the west. E. Everett.

2. A small room; an inclosed place.
So long in secret cabin there he held Her captive. Spenser.

3. A room in ship for officers or passengers. Cabin boy, a boy whose
duty is wait on the officers and passengers in the cabin of a ship.

CABIN
Cab"in v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cabined (-nd); p. pr. & vb. n. Cabining.]

Defn: To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.
I'll make you . . . cabin in a cave. Shak.

CABIN
Cab"in, v. t.

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cabin.
I am cabined, cribbed, confined, bound in To saucy doubts and fears.
Shak.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, n. Etym: [F., dim. of cabine or cabane. See Cabin, n.]

1. A hut; a cottage; a small house. [Obs.]
Hearken a while from thy green cabinet, The rural song of careful
Colinet. Spenser.

2. A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.

3. A private room in which consultations are held.
Philip passed some hours every day in his father's cabinet. Prescott.

4. The advisory council of the chief executive officer of a nation; a
cabinet council.

Note: In England, the cabinet or cabinet council consists of those
privy coucilors who actually transact the immediate business of the
government. Mozley & W.
 -- In the United States, the cabinet is composed of the heads of the
executive departments of the government, namely, the Secretary of
State, of the Treasury, of War, of the Navy, of the Interior, and of
Agiculture, the Postmaster-general ,and the Attorney-general.

5.
(a) A set of drawers or a cupboard intended to contain articles of
value. Hence:
(b) A decorative piece of furniture, whether open like an étagère or
closed with doors. See Etagere.

6. Any building or room set apart for the safe keeping and exhibition
of works of art, etc.; also, the collection itself. Cabinet council.
(a) Same as Cabinet, n., 4 (of which body it was formerly the full
title). (b) A meeting of the cabinet.
 -- Cabinet councilor, a member of a cabinet council.
 -- Cabinet photograph, a photograph of a size smaller than an
imperial, though larger than a carte de visite.
 -- Cabinet picture, a small and generally highly finished picture,
suitable for a small room and for close inspection.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, a.

Defn: Suitable for a cabinet; small.
He [Varnhagen von Ense] is a walking cabinet edition of Goethe. For.
Quar. Rev.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cabineted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cabineting.]

Defn: To inclose [R.] Hewyt.

CABINETMAKER
Cab"i*net*mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice
articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.

CABINETMAKING
Cab"i*net*mak`ing, n.

Defn: The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household
furniture.

CABINETWORK
Cab"i*net*work`, n.

Defn: The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture
requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.

CABIREAN
Cab`i*re"an

Defn: ,n.One of the Cabiri.

CABIRI
Ca*bi"ri, n. pl. Etym: [ NL., fr. Gr. Ka`beiroi.] (Myth.)

Defn: Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the
Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece;
-- also called sons of Hephæstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the
art of working metals. [Written also Cabeiri.] Liddell & Scott.

CABIRIAN
Ca*bir"i*an, a.

Defn: Same as Cabiric.

CABIRIC
Ca*bir"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Cabirique]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.
[Written also Cabiritic.]

CABLE
Ca"ble, n. Etym: [F. Câble,m LL. capulum, caplum, a rope, fr. L.
capere to take; cf. D., Dan., & G. rabel, from the French. See
Capable.]

1. A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to
retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of
hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links.

2. A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some
protecting, or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension
bridge; a telegraphic cable.

3. (Arch)

Defn: A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex,
rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; --
called also cable molding. Bower cable, the cable belonging to the
bower anchor.
 -- Cable road, a railway on which the cars are moved by a
continuously running endless rope operated by a stationary motor.
 -- Cable's length, the length of a ship's cable. Cables in the
merchant service vary in length from 100 to 140 fathoms or more; but
as a maritime measure, a cable's length is either 120 fathoms (720
feet), or about 100 fathoms (600 feet, an approximation to one tenth
of a nautical mile).
 -- Cable tier. (a) That part of a vessel where the cables are
stowed. (b) A coil of a cable.
 -- Sheet cable, the cable belonging to the sheet anchor.
 -- Stream cable, a hawser or rope, smaller than the bower cables, to
moor a ship in a place sheltered from wind and heavy seas.
 -- Submarine cable. See Telegraph.
 -- To pay out the cable, To veer out the cable, to slacken it, that
it may run out of the ship; to let more cable run out of the hawse
hole.
 -- To serve the cable, to bind it round with ropes, canvas, etc., to
prevent its being, worn or galled in the hawse, et.
 -- To slip the cable, to let go the end on board and let it all run
out and go overboard, as when there is not time to weigh anchor.
Hence, in sailor's use, to die.

CABLE
Ca"ble, v. t.

1. To fasten with a cable.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: To ornament with cabling. See Cabling.

CABLE
Ca"ble, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Cabled (-b'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cabling (-blòng).]

Defn: To telegraph by a submarine cable [Recent]

CABLED
Ca"bled, a.

1. Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope. "The cabled
stone." Dyer.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Adorned with cabling.

CABLEGRAM
Ca"ble*gram`, n. Etym: [Cable, n. + Gr.

Defn: A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.

Note: [A recent hybrid, sometimes found in the newspapers.]

CABLELAID
Ca"ble*laid`, a.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted
together to form a cable.

2. Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain.
Simmonds.

CABLET
Ca"blet, n. Etym: [Dim. of cable; cf. F. câblot.]

Defn: A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.

CABLING
Ca"bling, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster
with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows
of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the
height of the shaft.

CABMAN
Cab"man, n.; pl. Cabmen (.

Defn: The driver of a cab.

CABOB
Ca*bob", n. Etym: [Hindi kabab]

1. A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so
called in Turkey and Persia.

2. A leg of mutton roasted, stuffed with white herrings and sweet
herbs. Wright.

CABOB
Ca*bob", v. t.

Defn: To roast, as a cabob. Sir. T. Herbert.

CABOCHED
Ca*boched", a. Etym: [F. caboche head. Cf. lst Cabbage.] (Her.)

Defn: Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the
head of a beast in armorial bearing. [Written also caboshed.]

CABOCHON
Ca`bo`chon" (ka`bo`shôN"), n. [F.] (Jewelry)

Defn: A stone of convex form, highly polished, but not faceted; also,
the style of cutting itself. Such stones are said to be cut en
cabochon.

CABOODLE
Ca*boo"dle, n.

Defn: The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually
in the phrase the whole caboodle. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.

CABOOSE
Ca*boose", n. Etym: [Cf. D. kabuis, kombuis, Dan. kabys, Sw. kabysa,
G. kabuse a little room or hut. The First part of the word seems to
be allied to W. cab cabin, booth. Cf. Cabin.] [Written also
camboose.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called
the galley.

2. (Railroad)

Defn: A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen,
workmen, etc.; a tool car. [U. S.]

CABOTAGE
Cab"o*tage, n. Etym: [F. cabotage, fr. caboter to sail along the
coast; cf. Sp. cabo cape.] (Naut.)

Defn: Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.

CABREE
Ca*brée", n. Etym: [French Canadian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pronghorn antelope. [Also written cabrit, cabret.]

CABRERITE
Ca*brer"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt,
and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.

CABRILLA
Ca*bril"la, n. Etym: [Sp., prawn.] (Zoöl)

Defn: A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus
Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast
of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock
bass and kelp salmon.

CABRIOLE
Cab"ri*ole, n. Etym: [F. See Cabriolet, and cf. Capriole.] (Man.)

Defn: A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.
The cabrioles which his charger exhibited. Sir W. Scott.

CABRIOLET
Cab`ri*o*let", n.Etym: [F., dim. of cabriole a leap, caper, from It.
capriola, fr. dim. of L. caper he-goat, capra she-goat. This carriage
is so called from its skipping lightness. Cf. Cab, Caper a leap.]

Defn: A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.

CABRIT
Ca*brit", n.

Defn: Same as Cabrée.

CABURN
Cab"urn, n. Etym: [Cf. Cable, n.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize
tackles, etc.

CACAEMIA; CACHAEMIA
Ca*cæ"mi*a, Ca*chæ"mi*a n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.

CACAINE
Ca*ca"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.

CACAJAO
Ca*ca*jão", n. Etym: [Pg.] (Zoöl)

Defn: A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (or Brachyurus)
melanocephala). [Written also cacajo.]

CACAO
Ca*ca"o, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. Mex. kakahuatl. Cf. Cocoa, Chocolate]
(Bot.)

Defn: A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and
the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds
about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma
are prepared.

CACHAEMIA; CACHEMIA
Ca*chæ"mi*a, Ca*che"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  bad +  blood.] (Med.)

Defn: A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood. --Ca*chæ"mic,
Ca*che"mic (#), a.

CACHALOT
Cach"a*lot, n. Etym: [F. cachalot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of
its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after
death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called
spermaceti. See Sperm whale.

CACHE
Cache, n. Etym: [F., a hiding place, fr. cacher to conceal, to hide.]

Defn: A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and
preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. Kane.

CACHECTIC; CACHECTICAL
Ca*chec"tic, Ca*chec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. cachecticus, Gr.
cachectique.]

Defn: Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies;
cachectical blood. Arbuthnot.

CACHEPOT
Cache`pot" (kash`po"), n. Etym: [F., fr. cacher to hide + pot a pot.]

Defn: An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal,
paper, etc.

CACHET
Cach"et, n. Etym: [F. fr. cacher to hide.]

Defn: A seal, as of a letter. Lettre de cachet Etym: [F.], a sealed
letter, especially a letter or missive emanating from the sovereign;
-- much used in France before the Revolution as an arbitrary order of
imprisonment.

CACHEXIA; CACHEXY
Ca*chex"i*a, Ca*chex"y, n. Etym: [L. cachexia, Gr.

Defn: A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to
impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid
process (as cancer or tubercle).

CACHINNATION
Cach`in*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cachinnatio, fr. cachinnare to laugh
aloud, cf Gr.

Defn: Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical
or maniacal affections.
Hideous grimaces . . . attended this unusual cachinnation. Sir W.
Scott.

CACHINNATORY
Ca*chin"na*to*ry, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.
Cachinnatory buzzes of approval. Carlyle.

CACHIRI
Ca*chi"ri, n.

Defn: A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the
manioc, and resembling perry. Dunglison.

CACHOLONG
Cach"o*long, n, Etym: [F. cacholong, said to be from Cach, the name
of a river in Bucharia + cholon, a Calmuck word for stone; or fr. a
Calmuck word meaning "beautiful stone"] (Min.)

Defn: An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also,
a similar variety of opal.

CACHOU
Ca`chou", n. Etym: [F. See Cashoo.]

Defn: A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the
breath.

CACHUCHA
Ca*chu"cha, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembing the bolero.
[Sometimes in English spelled cachuca (.]
The orchestra plays the cachucha. Logfellow.

CACHUNDE
Ca*chun"de, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Med.)

Defn: A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other
ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a
stomachic and antispasmodic.

CACIQUE
Ca*cique", n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: See Cazique.

CACK
Cack, v. i. Etym: [OE. cakken, fr. L. cacare; akin to Gr. cac.]

Defn: To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope.

CACKEREL
Cack"er*el, n. Etym: [OF. caquerel cagarel (Cotgr.), from the root of
E. cack.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered
poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.

CACKLE
Cac"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cackled (-k'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cackling.] Etym: [OE. cakelen; cf. LG. kakeln, D. kakelen, G.
gackeln, gackern; all of imitative origin. Cf. Gagle, Cake to
cackle.]

1. To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.
When every goose is cackling. Shak.

2. To laugh with a broken noise, like the cackling of a hen or a
goose; to giggle. Arbuthnot.

3. To talk in a silly manner; to prattle. Johnson.

CACKLE
Cac"kle, n.

1. The sharp broken noise made by a goose or by a hen that has laid
an egg.
By her cackle saved the state. Dryden.

2. Idle talk; silly prattle.
There is a buzz and cackle all around regarding the sermon.
Thackeray.

CACKLER
Cac"kler, n.

1. A fowl that cackles.

2. One who prattles, or tells tales; a tattler.

CACKLING
Cac"kling, n.

Defn: The broken noise of a goose or a hen.

CACOCHYMIA; CACOCHYMY
Cac`o*chym"i*a, Cac"o*chym`y, n. Etym: [NL. cacochymia, fr. Gr.
cacochymie.] (Med.)

Defn: A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body,
especially of the blood. Dunglison.

CACOCHYMIC; CACOCHYMICAL
Cac`o*chym"ic, Cac`o*chym"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.
Wiseman.

CACODEMON
Cac`o*de"mon, n. Etym: [Gr. cacodémon.]

1. An evil spirit; a devil or demon. Shak.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The nightmare. Dunaglison.

CACODOXICAL
Cac`o*dox"ic*al, a.

Defn: Heretical.

CACODOXY
Cac"o*dox`y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy. [R.]
Heterodoxy, or what Luther calls cacodoxy. R. Turnbull.

CACODYL
Cac"o*dyl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4,
spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable
odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the
nitrogen compounds called hydrazines. [Written also cacodyle, and
kakodyl.]

CACODYLIC
Cac`o*dyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl. Cacodylic acid, a
white, crystalline, deliquescent substance, (CH3)2AsO.OH, obtained by
the oxidation of cacodyl, and having the properties of an exceedingly
stable acid; -- also called alkargen.

CACOETHES
Cac`o*ë"thes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoëthes
scribendi, "The itch for writing". Addison.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.

CACOGASTRIC
Cac`o*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Troubled with bad digestion. [R.] Carlyle.

CACOGRAPHIC
Cac`o*graph`ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written
or spelled.

CACOGRAPHY
Ca*cog`ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy; cf. F. cacographie.]

Defn: Incorrect or bad writing or spelling. Walpole.

CACOLET
Ca`co*let", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or
pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous
districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an
army.

CACOLOGY
Ca*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. cacologie.]

Defn: Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words. Buchanan.

CACOMIXLE; CACOMIXTLE; CACOMIXL
Ca`co*mix"le, Ca`co*mix"tle, Ca"co*mix`l, n. Etym: [Mexican name.]

Defn: A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of
a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and
California.

CACOON
Ca*coon", n.

Defn: One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada
scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.

CACOPHONIC; CACOPHONICAL; CACOPHONOUS; CACOPHONIOUS
Cac`o*phon"ic, Cac`o*phon"ic*al, Ca*coph"o*nous, Cac`o*pho"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Harsh-sounding.

CACOPHONY
Ca*coph"o*ny, n.; pl. Cacophonies. Etym: [Gr. Cacophonie.]

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the
concurrence of harsh letters or syllables. "Cacophonies of all
kinds." Pope.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A combination of discordant sounds.

3. (Med.)

Defn: An unhealthy state of the voice.

CACOSTOMIA
Cac`o*sto"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  bad +  mouth.] (Med.)

Defn: Diseased or gangrenous condition of the mouth.

CACOTECHNY
Cac"o*tech`ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A corruption or corrupt state of art. [R.]

CACOXENE; CACOXENITE
Ca*cox"ene, Ca*cox"e*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts.
The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore.

CACTACEOUS
Cac*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the
prickly pear is a common example.

CACTUS
Cac"tus, n. ; pl. E. Cactuses, Cacti (-ti). Etym: [L., a kind of
cactus, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the order Cactacæ, as the prickly pear and the
night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems
and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly
natives of the warmer parts of America. Cactus wren (Zoöl.), an
American wren of the genus Campylorhynchus, of several species.

CACUMINAL
Ca*cu"mi*nal, a. Etym: [L. cacumen, cacuminis, the top, point.]
(Philol.)

Defn: Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to
certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.

CACUMINATE
Ca*cu"mi*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. cacuminatus, p. p. of cacuminare to
point, fr. cacumen point.]

Defn: To make sharp or pointed. [Obs.]

CAD
Cad, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cadet.]

1. A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it,
and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards. [Eng.]
Dickens.

2. A lowbred, presuming person; a mean, vulgar fellow. [Cant]
Thackeray.

CADASTRAL
Ca*das"tral, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to landed property. Cadastral survey, or
Cadastral map, a survey, map, or plan on a large scale (Usually
topographical map, which exaggerates the dimensions of houses and the
breadth of roads and streams, for the sake of distinctness. Brande &
C.

CADASTRE; CADASTER
Ca*das"tre, Ca*das"ter, n. Etym: [f. cadastre.] (Law.)

Defn: An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate
for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.

CADAVER
Ca*da"ver, n. Etym: [L., fr cadere to fall.]

Defn: A dead human body; a corpse.

CADAVERIC
Ca*dav"er*ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes
produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity. Dunglison.
Cadaveric alkaloid, an alkaloid generated by the processes of
decomposition in dead animal bodies, and thought by some to be the
cause of the poisonous effects produced by the bodies. See Ptomaine.

CADAVERINE; CADAVERIN
Ca*dav"er*ine, Ca*dav"er*in, n. [From Cadaver.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sirupy, nontoxic ptomaine, C5H14N2 (chemically pentamethylene
diamine), formed in putrefaction of flesh, etc.

CADAVEROUS
Ca*dav"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. cadaverosus.]

1. Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale;
ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.

2. Of or pertaining to, or having the qualities of, a dead body. "The
scent cadaverous." -- Ca*dav"er*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*dav"er*ous*ness, n.

CADBAIT
Cad"bait`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. codbait, cadbote fly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Caddice.

CADDICE; CADDIS
Cad"dice, Cad"dis, n. Etym: [Prov. E. caddy, cadew; cf. G. köder
bait.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of a caddice fly. These larvæ generally live in
cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with
pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a
favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm.
Caddice fly (Zoöl.), a species of trichopterous insect, whose larva
is the caddice.

CADDIS
Cad"dis, n. Etym: [OE. caddas, Scot. caddis lint, caddes a kind of
woolen cloth, cf. Gael. cada, cadadh, a kind of cloth, cotton,
fustian, W. cadas, F. cadis.]

Defn: A kind of worsted lace or ribbon. "Caddises, cambrics, lawns."
Shak.

CADDISH
Cad"dish, a.

Defn: Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.

CADDOW
Cad"dow, n. Etym: [OE. cadawe, prob. fr. ca chough + daw jackdaw; cf.
Gael. cadhag, cathag. Cf. Chough, Daw, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A jackdaw. [Prov. Eng.]

CADDY
Cad"dy, n.; pl. Caddies. Etym: [Earlier spelt catty, fr. Malay kati a
weight of 11/3 pounds. Cf. Catty.]

Defn: A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.

CADE
Cade, a. Etym: [Cf. OE. cad, kod, lamb, also Cosset, Coddle.]

Defn: Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.
He brought his cade lamb with him. Sheldon.

CADE
Cade, v. t.

Defn: To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle;
to tame. [Obs.] Johnson.

CADE
Cade, n. Etym: [L. cadus jar, Gr.

Defn: A barrel or cask, as of fish. "A cade of herrings." Shak.
A cade of herrings is 500, of sprats 1,000. Jacob, Law Dict.

CADE
Cade, n. Etym: [F. & Pr.; LL. cada.]

Defn: A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean
countries. Oil of cade, a thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by
destructive distillation of the inner wood of the cade. It is used as
a local application in skin diseases.

CADENCE
Ca"dence, n. Etym: [OE. cadence, cadens, LL. cadentia a falling, fr.
L. cadere to fall; cf. F. cadence, It. cadenza. See Chance.]

1. The act or state of declining or sinking. [Obs.]
Now was the sun in western cadence low. Milton.

2. A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end
of a sentence.

3. A rhythmical modulation of the voice or of any sound; as, music of
bells in cadence sweet.
Blustering winds, which all night long Had roused the sea, now with
hoarse cadence lull Seafaring men o'erwatched. Milton.
The accents . . . were in passion's tenderest cadence. Sir W. Scott.

4. Rhythmical flow of language, in prose or verse.
Golden cadence of poesy. Shak.
If in any composition much attention was paid to the flow of the
rhythm, it was said (at least in the 14th and 15th centuries) to be
"prosed in faire cadence." Dr. Guest.

5. (Her.)

Defn: See Cadency.

6. (Man.)

Defn: Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.

7. (Mil.)

Defn: A uniform time and place in marching.

8. (Mus.)
(a) The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly
reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant
chord.
(b) A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a
strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy.
Imperfect cadence. (Mus.) See under Imperfect.

CADENCE
Ca"dence, v. t.

Defn: To regulate by musical measure.
These parting numbers, cadenced by my grief. Philips.

CADENCY
Ca"den*cy, n.

Defn: Descent of related families; distinction between the members of
a family according to their ages. Marks of cadency (Her.), bearings
indicating the position of the bearer as older or younger son, or as
a descendant of an older or younger son. See Difference (Her.).

CADENE
Ca*dene", n. Etym: [Cf. F. cadène.]

Defn: A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.
McElrath.

CADENT
Ca"dent, a. Etym: [L. cadens, -entis, p. pr. of cadere to fall.]

Defn: Falling. [R.] "Cadent tears." Shak.

CADENZA
Ca*den"za, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a
piece, commonly just before the final cadence.

CADER
Ca"der, n.

Defn: See Cadre.

CADET
Ca*det", n. Etym: [F. cadet a younger or the youngest son or brother,
dim. fr. L. caput head; i. e., a smaller head of the family, after
the first or eldest. See Chief, and cf. Cad.]

1. The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the
youngest son.
The cadet of an ancient and noble family. Wood.

2. (Mil.)
(a) A gentleman who carries arms in a regiment, as a volunteer, with
a view of acquiring military skill and obtaining a commission.
(b) A young man in training for military or naval service; esp. a
pupil in a military or naval school, as at West Point, Annapolis, or
Woolwich.

Note: All the undergraduates at Annapolis are Naval cadets. The
distinction between Cadet midshipmen and Cadet engineers was
abolished by Act of Congress in 1882.

CADETSHIP
Ca*det"ship, n.

Defn: The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a
cadetship.

CADEW; CADEWORM
Ca*dew", Cade"worm`, n.

Defn: A caddice. See Caddice.

CADGE
Cadge, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Cadged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cadging.]
Etym: [Cf. Scot. cache, caich, cadge, to toss, drive, OE. cachen to
drive, catch, caggen to bind, or perh. E. cage. Cf. Cadger.]

1. To carry, as a burden. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell.

2. To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc. [Prov.]

3. To intrude or live on another meanly; to beg. [Prov. or Slang,
Eng.] Wright.

CADGE
Cadge, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Cadger.] (Hawking)

Defn: A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.

CADGER
Cadg"er, n. Etym: [From Cadge, v. t., cf. Codger.]

1. A packman or itinerant huckster.

2. One who gets his living by trickery or begging. [Prov. or Slang]
"The gentleman cadger." Dickens.

CADGER
Cadg"er, n. Etym: [OF. cagier one who catches hawks. Cf. Cage.]
(Hawking)

Defn: One who carries hawks on a cadge.

CADGY
Cadg"y, a.

Defn: Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also,
wanton. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

CADI
Ca"di, n. Etym: [Turk. See Alcalde.]

Defn: An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually
the judge of a town or village.

CADIE; CADDIE
Cad"ie, Cad"die, n.

Defn: A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger. [Written also cady.]
Every Scotchman, from the peer to the cadie. Macaulay.

CADILESKER
Ca`di*les"ker, n. Etym: [Ar. qa\'c8i judge + al'sker the army, Per.
leshker.]

Defn: A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally
because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are
now tried only by their own officers.

CADILLAC
Ca*dil"lac, n. Etym: [Prob. from Cadillac, a French town.]

Defn: A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for
cooking. Johnson.

CADIS
Cad"is, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of coarse serge.

CADMEAN
Cad*me"an, a. Etym: [L. Cadmeus, Gr. Cadmus), which name perhaps
means lit. a man from the East; cf. Heb. qedem east.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who
was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of
the alphabet -- Cadmean letters. Cadmean victory, a victory that
damages the victors as much as the vanquished; probably referring to
the battle in which the soldiers who sprang from the dragon's teeth
sown by Cadmus slew each other.

CADMIA
Cad"mi*a, n. Etym: [L. cadmia calamine, Gr. Calamine.] (Min.)

Defn: An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where
zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.

CADMIAN
Cad"mi*an, a. [R.]

Defn: See Cadmean.

CADMIC
Cad"mic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic
sulphide.

CADMIUM
Cad"mi*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Cadmia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in
some zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable.
Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in
1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.
Cadmium yellow, a compound of cadmium and sulphur, of an intense
yellow color, used as a pigment.

CADRANS
Cad"rans, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cadran. Cf. Quadrant.]

Defn: An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the
angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.

CADRE
Ca"dre, n. Etym: [F. cadre, It. quadro square, from L. quadrum, fr.
quatuor four.] (Mil.)

Defn: The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be
formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff. [Written also
cader.]

CADUCARY
Ca*du"ca*ry, a. Etym: [See Caducous.] (Law)

Defn: Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.

CADUCEAN
Ca*du"ce*an, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.

CADUCEUS
Ca*du"ce*us, n. Etym: [L. caduceum, caduceus; akin to Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger
of the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olive
wood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it,
and two wings at the top.

CADUCIBRANCHIATE
Ca*du`ci*bran"chi*ate, a. Etym: [L. caducus falling (fr. cadere to
fall) + E. branchiate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the
gills do not remain in adult life.

CADUCITY
Ca*du"ci*ty, n. Etym: [LL. caducitas: cf. F. caducité. See Caducous.]

Defn: Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. [R.]
[A] jumble of youth and caducity. Chesterfield.

CADUCOUS
Ca*du"cous, Etym: [L. caducus falling, inclined to fall, fr. cadere
to fall. See Cadence.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or
the gills of a tadpole.

CADUKE
Ca*duke", a. Etym: [Cf. F. caduc. See Caducous.]

Defn: Perishable; frail; transitory. [Obs.] Hickes.
The caduke pleasures of his world. Bp. Fisher.

CADY
Cad"y, n.

Defn: See Cadie.

CAECA
Cæ"ca, n. pl.

Defn: See Cæcum.

CAECAL
Cæ"cal, a. (Anat.)

1. Of or pertaining to the cæcum, or blind gut.

2. Having the form of a cæcum, or bag with one opening; baglike; as,
the cæcal extremity of a duct.

CAECIAS
Cæ"ci*as, n. Etym: [L. caecias, Gr.

Defn: A wind from the northeast. Milton.

CAECILIAN
Cæ*cil"i*an, n. Etym: [L. caecus blind. So named from the supposed
blindness of the species, the eyes being very minute.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Cæciliæ or
Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha. [Written also coecilian.]

CAECUM
Cæ"cum, n.; pl. Cæcums, L. Cæca. Etym: [L. caecus blind, invisible,
concealed.] (Anat.)
(a) A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct.
(b) The blind part of the large intestine beyond the entrance of the
small intestine; -- called also the blind gut.

Note: The cæcum is comparatively small in man, and ends in a slender
portion, the vermiform appendix; but in herbivorous mammals it is
often as large as the rest of the large intestine. In fishes there
are often numerous intestinal cæca.

CAELATURA
Cæ`la*tu"ra, n. [L., fr. caelare to engrave in relief.]

Defn: Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, as
reliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc.

CAENOZOIC
Cæ`no*zo"ic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: See Cenozoic.

CAEN STONE
Ca"en stone",

Defn: A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen,
France.

CAESAR
Cæ"sar, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar.
Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful
ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.
Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flattered
and courted by Cæsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other.
Macaulay.

CAESAREAN; CAESARIAN
Cæ*sa"re*an, Cæ*sa"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Caesareus, Caesarianus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cæsar or the Cæsars; imperial. Cæsarean
section (Surg.), the operation of taking a child from the womb by
cutting through the walls of the abdomen and uterus; -- so called
because Julius Cæsar is reported to have been brought into the world
by such an operation.

CAESARISM
Cæ"sar*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Césarisme.]

Defn: A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised
by a single person, to whom, as Cæsar or emperor, it has been
committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support
of such a system of government.

Note: This word came into prominence in the time of Napoleon III., as
an expression of the claims and political views of that emperor, and
of the politicians of his court.

CAESIOUS
Cæ"si*ous, a. Etym: [L. caesius bluish gray.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of
gray. Lindley.

CAESIUM
Cæ"si*um, n. Etym: [NL., from L. caesius bluish gray.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from
the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the first
element discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most strongly
basic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight
132.6.

CAESPITOSE
Cæs"pi*tose`, a.

Defn: Same as Cespitose.

CAESURA
Cæ*su"ra, n.; pl. E. Cæsuras (, L. Cæsuræ ( Etym: [L. caesura a
cutting off, a division, stop, fr. caedere, caesum, to cut off. See
Concise.]

Defn: A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot
and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the
middle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the cæsural accent
rests, or which is used as a foot.

Note: In the following line the cæsura is between study and of.
The prop | er stud | y || of | mankind | is man.

CAESURAL
Cæ*su"ral, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cæsura. Cæsural pause, a pause made at a
cæsura.

CAFE
Ca`fé", n. Etym: [F. See Coffee.]

Defn: A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or
restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.

CAFENET; CAFENEH
Caf"e*net, Caf"e*neh, n. Etym: [Turk. qahveh khaneh coffeehouse.]

Defn: A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is
sold. [Turkey]

CAFETERIA
Caf`e*te"ri*a, n. [Cf. F. cafetière.]

Defn: A restaurant or café at which the patrons serve themselves with
food kept at a counter, taking the food to small tables to eat. [U.
S.]

CAFFEIC
Caf*fe"ic, a. Etym: [See Coffee.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee. Caffeic acid, an acid
obtained from coffee tannin, as a yellow crystalline substance,
C9H8O4.

CAFFEINE
Caf*fe"ine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caféine. See Coffee.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from
coffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, and
with guaranine from guarana.

CAFFETANNIC
Caf`fe*tan"nic, a. Etym: [Caffeic + tannic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.
Caffetannic acid, a variety of tannin obtained from coffee berries,
regarded as a glucoside.

CAFFILA
Caf"fi*la, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: See Cafila.

CAFFRE
Caf"fre, n.

Defn: See Kaffir.

CAFILA; CAFILEH
Ca"fi*la, Ca"fi*leh, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government
caravan; a string of pack horses.

CAFTAN
Caf"tan, n. Etym: [Turk. qaftan: cf. F. cafetan.]

Defn: A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown
with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a
belt or sash.

CAFTAN
Caf"tan, v. t.

Defn: To clothe with a caftan. [R.]
The turbaned and caftaned damsel. Sir W. Scott.

CAG
Cag, n.

Defn: See Keg. [Obs.]

CAGE
Cage, n. Etym: [F. cage, fr. L. cavea cavity, cage, fr. cavus hollow.
Cf. Cave, n., Cajole, Gabion.]

1. A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or
metal, used for confining birds or other animals.
In his cage, like parrot fine and gay. Cowper.

2. A place of confinement for malefactors Shak.
Stone walls do not a prison make, Nor iron bars a cage. Lovelace.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as
the cage of a staircase. Gwilt.

4. (Mach.)
(a) A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball
valve.
(b) A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes.

5. The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a
cagelike structure moving in a shaft.

6. (Mining)

Defn: The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.

7. (Baseball)

Defn: The catcher's wire mask.

CAGE
Cage, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caged; p. pr. & vb. n. Caging.]

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine. "Caged
and starved to death." Cowper.

CAGED
Caged, a.

Defn: Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "The
caged cloister." Shak.

CAGELING
Cage"ling, n. Etym: [Cage + -ling]

Defn: A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird. [Poetic]
Tennyson.

CAGIT
Ca"git, n. (Zoöl)

Defn: A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the
Philippine Islands.

CAGMAG
Cag"mag, n.

Defn: A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. [Prov.
Eng.] Halliwell.

CAGOT
Ca"got, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until
1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are
supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.

CAHENSLYISM
Ca*hens"ly*ism, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A plan proposed to the Pope in 1891 by P. P. Cahensly, a member
of the German parliament, to divide the foreign-born population of
the United States, for ecclesiastical purposes, according to European
nationalities, and to appoint bishops and priests of like race and
speaking the same language as the majority of the members of a
diocese or congregation. This plan was successfully opposed by the
American party in the Church.

CAHIER
Ca`hier", n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. cayer, fr. LL. quaternum. See Quire
of paper. The sheets of manuscript were folded into parts.]

1. A namber of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the
successive portions of a work printed in numbers.

2. A memorial of a body; a report of legislative proceedings, etc.

CAHINCA ROOT
Ca*hin"ca root`. [Written also cainca root.] [See Cahincic.] (Bot.)

Defn: The root of an American shrub (Chiococca racemosa), found as
far north as Florida Keys, from which cahincic acid is obtained;
also, the root of the South American Chiococca anguifuga, a
celebrated antidote for snake poison.

CAHINCIC
Ca*hin"cic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a
species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. recemosa; as, cahincic
acid.

CAHOOT
Ca*hoot", n. Etym: [Perhaps fr. f. cohorte a a company or band.]

Defn: Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person. [Slang,
southwestern U. S.] Bartlett.

CAIMACAM
Cai`ma*cam", n. Etym: [Turk.]

Defn: The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.

CAIMAN
Cai"man, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cayman.

CAINOZOIC
Cai`no*zo"ic, a.

Defn: (Geol.) See Cenozic.

CAIQUE
Ca*ïque", n. Etym: [F., fr. Turk. qa\'c6q boat.] (Naut..)

Defn: A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a
Levantine vessel of larger size.

CA IRA
Ça"i*ra". Etym: [F. ça ira, ça ira, les aristocrates à la lanterne,
it shall go on, it shall go on, [hang]the arictocrats to the lantern
(lamp-post).]

Defn: The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.

CAIRD
Caird, n. Etym: [Ir. ceard a tinker.]

Defn: A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar. [Prov. Eng.]

CAIRN
Cairn, n. Etym: [Gael. carn, gen. cairn, a heap: cf. Ir. & W. carn.]

1. A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants
of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.
Now here let us place the gray stone of her cairn. Campbell.

2. A pile of stones heaped up as a landmark, or to arrest attention,
as in surveying, or in leaving traces of an exploring party, etc. C.
Kingsley. Kane.

CAIRNGORMSTONE
Cairn*gorm"stone`. Etym: [Gael. carn a cairn + gorm azure.] (Min.)

Defn: A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or
crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in
Scotland.

CAISSON
Cais"son, n. Etym: [F., fr. caisse, case, chest. See 1st Case.]

1. (Mil.)
(a) A chest to hold ammunition.
(b) A four-wheeled carriage for conveying ammunition, consisting of
two parts, a body and a limber. In light field batteries there is one
caisson to each piece, having two ammunition boxes on the body, and
one on the limber. Farrow.
(c) A chest filled with explosive materials, to be laid in the way of
an enemy and exploded on his appoach.

2.
(a) A water-tight box, of timber or iron within which work is carried
on in building foundations or structures below the water level.
(b) A hollow floating box, usually of iron, which serves to close the
entrances of docks and basins.
(c) A structure, usually with an air chamber, placed beneath a vessel
to lift or float it.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits. Pneumatic caisson
(Engin.), a caisson, closed at the top but open at the bottom, and
resting upon the ground under water. The pressure of air forced into
the caisson keeps the water out. Men and materials are admitted to
the interior through an air lock. See Lock.

CAISSON DISEASE
Cais"son dis*ease". (Med.)

Defn: A disease frequently induced by remaining for some time in an
atmosphere of high pressure, as in caissons, diving bells, etc. It is
characterized by neuralgic pains and paralytic symptoms. It is
variously explained, most probably as due to congestion of internal
organs with subsequent stasis of the blood.

CAITIFF
Cai"tiff, a. Etym: [OE. caitif, cheitif, captive, miserable, OF.
caitif, chaitif, captive, mean, wretched, F. chétif, fr. L. captivus
captive, fr. capere to take, akin to E. heave. See Heave, and cf.
Captive.]

1. Captive; wretched; unfortunate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Base; wicked and mean; cowardly; despicable.
Arnold had sped his caitiff flight. W. Irving.

CAITIFF
Cai"tiff, n.

Defn: A captive; a prisoner. [Obs.]
Avarice doth tyrannize over her caitiff and slave. Holland.

2. A wretched or unfortunate man. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and
wickedness meet.

Note: The deep-felt conviction of men that slavery breaks down the
moral character . . . speaks out with . . . distinctness in the
change of meaning which caitiff has undergone signifying as it now
does, one of a base, abject disposition, while there was a time when
it had nothing of this in it. Trench.

CAJEPUT
Caj"e*put, n.

Defn: See Cajuput.

CAJOLE
Ca*jole", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cajoled; p. pr. & vb. n. Cajoling.]
Etym: [F. cajoler, orig., to chatter like a bird in a cage, to sing;
hence, to amuse with idle talk, to flatter, from the source of OF.
goale, jaiole, F. geôle, dim. of cage a cage. See Cage, Jail.]

Defn: To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.
I am not about to cajole or flatter you into a reception of my views.
F. W. Robertson.

Syn.
 -- To flatter; wheedle; delude; coax; entrap.

CAJOLEMENT
Ca*jole"ment, n.

Defn: The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.
Coleridge.

CAJOLER
Ca*jol"er, n.

Defn: A flatterer; a wheedler.

CAJOLERY
Ca*jol"er*y, n.; pl. Cajoleries (.

Defn: A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery.
"Infamous cajoleries." Evelyn.

CAJUN
Ca"jun, n. [A corruption of Acadian.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent.

CAJUPUT
Caj"u*put, n. Etym: [Of Malayan origin; kayu tree + putih white.]
(Med.)

Defn: A highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled from
the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is
greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.

CAJUPUTENE
Caj"u*put*ene`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.

CAKE
Cake, n. Etym: [OE. cake, kaak; akin to Dan. kage, Sw. & Icel. kaka,
D. koek, G.kuchem, OHG. chuocho.]

1. A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from
unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake.

2. A sweetened composition of flour and other ingredients, leavened
or unleavened, baked in a loaf or mass of any size or shape.

3. A thin wafer-shaped mass of fried batter; a griddlecake or
pancake; as buckwheat cakes.

4. A mass of matter concreted, congealed, or molded into a solid mass
of any form, esp. into a form rather flat than high; as, a cake of
soap; an ague cake.
Cakes of rusting ice come rolling down the flood. Dryden.
Cake urchin (Zoöl), any species of flat sea urchins belonging to the
Clypeastroidea.
 -- Oil cake the refuse of flax seed, cotton seed, or other vegetable
substance from which oil has been expressed, compacted into a solid
mass, and used as food for cattle, for manure, or for other purposes.
 -- To have one's cake dough, to fail or be disappointed in what one
has undertaken or expected. Shak.

CAKE
Cake, v. i.

Defn: To form into a cake, or mass.

CAKE
Cake, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caked; p. pr. & vb. n. Caking.]

Defn: To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an
oven; to coagulate.
Clotted blood that caked within. Addison.

CAKE
Cake, v. i.

Defn: To cackle as a goose. [Prov. Eng.]

CAKING COAL
Cak"ing coal`.

Defn: See Coal.

CAL
Cal, n. (Cornish Mines)

Defn: Wolfram, an ore of tungsten. Simmonds.

CALABAR
Cal"a*bar, n.

Defn: A district on the west coast of Africa. Calabar bean, The of a
climbing legumious plant (Physostigma venenosum), a native of
tropical Africa. It is highly poisonous. It is used to produce
contraction of the pupil of the eye; also in tetanus, neuralgia, and
rheumatic diseases; -- called also ordeal bean, being used by the
negroes in trials for witchcraft.

CALABARINE
Cal"a*bar*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid resembing physostigmine and occurring with it in
the calabar bean.

CALABASH
Cal"a*bash, n. Etym: [Sp. calabaza, or Pg. calaba, caba (cf. F.
Calebasse), lit., a dry gourd, fr. Ar. qar', fem., a kind of gourd +
aibas dry.]

1. The common gourd (plant or fruit).

2. The fruit of the calabash tree.

3. A water dipper, bottle, backet, or other utensil, made from the
dry shell of a calabash or gourd. Calabash tree. (Bot.), a tree of
tropical America (Crescentia cujete), producing a large gourdike
fruit, containing a purgative pulp. Its hard shell, after the removal
of the pulp, is used for cups, bottles, etc. The African calabash
tree is the baobab.

CALABOOSE
Cal`a*boose", n. Etym: [A corruption of Sp. calabozo dungeon.]

Defn: A prison; a jail. [Local, U. S.]

CALABOZO
Ca`la*bo"zo, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A jail. See Calaboose.

CALADE
Ca*lade", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is
made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.

CALADIUM
Ca*la"di*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are
cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously
blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.

CALAITE
Cal"a*ite, n. Etym: [L. calaïs, Gr. calaïte.]

Defn: A mineral. See Turquoise.

CALAMANCO
Cal`a*man"co, n. Etym: [LL. calamancus, calamacus; cf. camelaucum; a
head covering made of camel's hair, NGr. calmande a woolen stuff.]

Defn: A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked. "a gay
calamanco waistcoat." Tatler.

CALAMANDER WOOD
Cal"a*man`der wood.

Defn: A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-
brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is a
species of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros qusesita. Called
also Coromandel wood.

CALAMAR; CALAMARY
Cal"a*mar, Cal"a*ma*ry, n. Etym: [LL. calamarium inkstand, fr. L.
calamus a reed pen: cf. F. calmar, calemar, pen case, calamar.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera.
There are many species. They have a sack of inklike fluid which they
discharge from the siphon tube, when pursued or alarmed, in order to
confuse their enemies. Their shell is a thin horny plate, within the
flesh of back, shaped very much like a quill pen. In America they are
called squids. See Squid.

CALAMBAC
Cal"am*bac, n. Etym: [F. calambac, calambour, from Malay Kalambaq a
king of fragrant wood.] (Bot.)

Defn: A fragrant wood; agalloch.

CALAMBOUR
Cal"am*bour, n. Etym: [See Calambac.]

Defn: A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled
color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac;
-- used by cabinetmakers.

CALAMIFEROUS
Cal`a*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calamus reed + ferous.]

Defn: Producing reeds; reedy.

CALAMINE
Cal"a*mine, n. Etym: [F. calamine, LL. calamina, fr. L. Cabmia. See
Cadmia.] (min.)

Defn: A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.

Note: The name was formerly applied to both the carbonate and
silicate of zinc each of which is valuabic as an ore; but it is now
usually restricted to the latter, the former being called
smithsonite.

CALAMINT
Cal"a*mint, n. Etym: [OE. calamint, calemente (cf. F. calament) fr.
L. calamintha, Gr. Mint.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family,
esp. the C. Nepela and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.

CALAMIST
Cal"a*mist, n. Etym: [L. calamus a reed.]

Defn: One who plays upon a reed or pipe. [Obs.] Blount.

CALAMISTRATE
Cal`a*mis"trate, v. i. Etym: [L. calamistratus, curied with the
curling iron, fr. calamistrum curling iron, fr. calamus a reed.]

Defn: To curl or friz, as the hair. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

CALAMISTRATION
Cal`amis*tra"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of curling the hair. [Obs.] burton.

CALAMISTRUM
Cal`a*mis"trum, n. Etym: [L., a curling iron.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of
certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used to curl certain fibers in the
construction of their webs.

CALAMITE
Cal"a*mite, n. Etym: [L. calamus a reed: cf. F. calamite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form
of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush
family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the
stem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.

CALAMITOUS
Ca*lam"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. Calamitosus; cf. F. calamiteux.]

1. Suffering calamity; wretched; miserable. [Obs.]
Ten thousands of calamitous persons. South.

2. Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched;
wretched; unhappy. "This sad and calamitous condition." South. "A
calamitous prison" Milton.

Syn.
 -- Miserable; deplorable; distressful; afflictive; grievous;
baleful; disastrous; adverse; unhappy; severe; sad; unfortunate.
 -- Ca*lam"i*tous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lam"i*tous*ness, n.

CALAMITY
Ca*lam"i*ty n.; pl. Calamities. Etym: [L. calamitas, akin to in-
columis unharmed: cf. F. calamité]

1. Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to
events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to
communities or individuals.

Note: The word calamity was first derived from calamus when the corn
could not get out of the stalk. Bacon.
Strokes of calamity that scathe and scorch the soul. W. Irving.

2. A state or time of distress or misfortune; misery.
The deliberations of calamity are rarely wise. Burke.
Where'er I came I brought calamity. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Disaster; distress; afflicition; adversity; misfortune;
unhappiness; infelicity; mishap; mischance; misery; evil; extremity;
exigency; downfall.
 -- Calamity, Disaster, Misfortune, Mishap, Mischance. Of these
words, calamity is the strongest. It supposes a somewhat continuous
state, produced not usually by the direct agency of man, but by
natural causes, such as fire, flood, tempest, disease, etc, Disaster
denotes literally ill-starred, and is some unforeseen and distressing
event which comes suddenly upon us, as if from hostile planet.
Misfortune is often due to no specific cause; it is simply the bad
fortune of an individual; a link in the chain of events; an evil
independent of his own conduct, and not to be charged as a fault.
Mischance and mishap are misfortunes of a trivial nature, occurring
usually to individuals. "A calamity is either public or private, but
more frequently the former; a disaster is rather particular than
private; it affects things rather than persons; journey, expedition,
and military movements are often attended with disasters; misfortunes
are usually personal; they immediately affect the interests of the
individual." Crabb.

CALAMUS
Cal"a*mus, n.; pl. Calami. Etym: [L., a reed. See Halm.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes the
common rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Acorus (A. calamus), commonly called calamus, or
sweet flag. The root has a pungent, aromatic taste, and is used in
medicine as a stomachic; the leaves have an aromatic odor, and were
formerly used instead of rushes to strew on floors.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The horny basal portion of a feather; the barrel or quill.

CALANDO
Ca*lan"do, a. Etym: [It.]

Defn: (Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.

CALASH
Ca*lash", n. Etym: [F. calèche; of Slavonic origin; cf. Bohem.
kolesa, Russ. koliaska calash, koleso, kolo, wheel.]

1. A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be
raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver,
and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open
or a close carriage.
The baroness in a calash capable of holding herself, her two
children, and her servants. W. Irving.

2. In Canada, a two-wheeled, one-seated vehicle, with a calash top,
and the driver's seat elevated in front.

3. A hood or top of a carriage which can be thrown back at pleasure.

4. A hood, formerly worn by ladies, which could be drawn forward or
thrown back like the top of a carriage.

CALAVERAS SKULL
Ca`la*ve"ras skull.

Defn: A human skull reported, by Prof. J. D. Whitney, as found in
1886 in a Tertiary auriferous gravel deposit, lying below a bed of
black lava, in Calaveras County, California. It is regarded as very
doubtful whether the skull really belonged to the deposit in which it
was found. If it did, it indicates an unprecedented antiquity for
human beings of an advanced type.

CALAVERITE
Ca`la*ve"rite (, n. (Min.)

Defn: A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a
telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.

CALCANEAL
Cal*ca"ne*al, a. (Anal.)

Defn: Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.

CALCANEUM
Cal*ca"ne*um n.; pl. E. -neums, L. -nea. Etym: [L. the heel, fr.
calx, calcis, the heel.] (Anal.)

Defn: One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great
bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.

CALCAR
Cal"car, n. Etym: [L. calcaria lime kiln, fr. calx, calcis, lime. See
Calx.] (Glass manuf.)

Defn: A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the
calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. Ure.

CALCAR
Cal"car, n.; L. pl. Calcaria. Etym: [L., a pur, as worn on the heel,
also the spur of a cock, fr. calx, calcis, the heel.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A slender bony process from the ankle joint of bats, which
helps to support the posterior part of the web, in flight.

3. (Anat.)
(a) A spur, or spurlike prominence.
(b) A curved ridge in the floor of the leteral ventricle of the
brain; the calcar avis, hippocampus minor, or ergot.

CALCARATE; CALCARATED
Cal"ca*rate, Cal"ca*ra`ted, a. Etym: [LL. calcaratus, fr. L. calcar.
See 2d Calcar.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur;
spurred. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Armed with a spur.

CALCAREO-ARGILLACEOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-ar`gil*la"ceous, a.

Defn: consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous
earths.

CALCAREO-BITUMINOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-bi*tu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen. Lyell.

CALCAREO-SILICEOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-si*li"ceous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.

CALCAREOUS
Cal*ca"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. calcarius pertaining to lime. See Calx.]

Defn: Partaking of the nature ofcalcite or calcium carbonate;
consisting of, or containg, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.
Clcareous spar. See as Calcite.

CALCAREOUSNESS
Cal*ca"re*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being calcareous.

CALCARIFEROUS
Cal`ca*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calcarius of lime + ferous.]

Defn: Lime-yielding; calciferous

CALCARINE
Cal"ca*rine, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.

CALCAVELLA
Cal`ca*vel"la, n.

Defn: A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of
Carcavelhos. [Written also Calcavellos or Carcavelhos.]

CALCEATED
Cal"ce*a"ted, a. Etym: [L. calceatus, p. p. of pelceare to ahoe, fr.
catceus shoe, fr. calx, calcic, heel.]

Defn: Fitted with, or wearing, shoes. Johnson.

CALCED
Calced, a. Etym: [See Calceated.]

Defn: Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or
barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.

CALCEDON
Cal"ce*don, n. Etym: [See Chalcedony.]

Defn: A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.

CALCEDONIC; CALCEDONIAN
Cal`ce*don"ic, Cal`ce*do"ni*an, a.

Defn: See Chalcedonic.

CALCEIFORM
Cal"ce*i*form`, a. Etym: [L. calceus shoe + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a plipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper;
calceolate.

CALCEOLARIA
cal`ce*o*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calceolarius shoemaker, fr.
calceolus, a dim. of calceus shoe.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought from
South America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, often
spotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.

CALCEOLATE
Cal"ce*o*late, a. Etym: [See Calceolaria.]

Defn: Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.

CALCES
Cal"ces, n. pl.

Defn: See Calx.

CALCIC
Cal"cic, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime: cf. F. calcique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.

CALCIFEROUS
Cal*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -
ferous.]

Defn: Bearing producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.
Calciferouse epoch (Geol.), and epoch in the American lower Silurian
system, immediately succeeding the Cambrian period. The name alludes
to the peculiar mixture of calcareous and siliceous characteristics
in many of the beds. See the Diagram under Grology.

CALCIFIC
Cal*cif"ic, a.

Defn: Calciferous. Specifically: (Zoöl.) of or pertaining to hte
portion of the which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.
Huxley.

CALCIFICATION
Cal`ci*fi*ca"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance by
the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone
and teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.

CALCIFIED
Cal"ci*fied, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts;
calcareous.

CALCIFORM
Cal"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -form.]

Defn: In the form of chalk or lime.

CALCIFY
Cal"ci*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Calcified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calcifying.] Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -fy.]

Defn: To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of
salts of lime.

CALCIFY
Cal"ci*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become changed into a stony or calcareous condition, in lime
is a principal ingredient, as in the formation of teeth.

CALCIGENOUS
Cal*cig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -genouse.] (Chem.)

Defn: Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on
being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.

CALCIGEROUS
Cal*cig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -gerouse.]

Defn: Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells
of the teeth.

CALCIMINE
Cal"ci*mine, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime.]

Defn: A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of
a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc
white, and water. [Also spelt kalsomine.]

CALCIMINE
Cal"ci*mine, v. t. [imp. &p. p. Calcimined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calcimining.]

Defn: To wash or cover with calcimine; as, to calcimine walls.

CALCIMINER
Cal"ci*mi`ner, n.

Defn: One who calcimines.

CALCINABLE
Cal*cin"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.

CALCINATE
Cal"ci*nate, v. i.

Defn: To calcine. [R.]

CALCINATION
Cal`ci*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. calcination.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering
it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some
volatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonate
of calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.

2. The act or process of reducing a metal to an oxide or metallic
calx; oxidation.

CALCINATORY
Cal*cin"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A vessel used in calcination.

CALCINE
Cal*cine", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calciden; p. pr. & vb. n. Calcining.]
Etym: [F. calciner, fr. L. calx, calcis, lime. See Calx.]

1. To reduce to a powder, or to a friable state, by the action of
heat; to expel volatile matter from by means of heat, as carbonic
acid from limestone, and thus (usually) to produce disintegration; as
to, calcine bones.

2. To oxidize, as a metal by the action of heat; to reduce to a
metallic calx.

CALCINE
Cal*cine", v. i.

Defn: To be convereted into a powder or friable substance, or into a
calx, by the action of heat. "Calcining without fusion" Newton.

CALCINER
Cal*cin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, calcines.

CALCISPONGIAE
Cal`ci*spon"gi*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calx, calcis, lime +
spongia a sponge.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See
Porifera.

CALCITE
Cal"cite, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime.] (Min.)

Defn: Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral in
its crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. It
includes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-spar
and calcareous spar.

Note: Argentine is a pearly lamellar variety; aphrite is foliated or
chalklike; dogtooth spar, a form in acute rhombohedral or
scalenohedral crystals; calc-sinter and calc-tufa are lose or porous
varieties formed in caverns or wet grounds from calcareous deposits;
agaric mineral is a soft, white friable variety of similar origin;
stalaclite and stalagmite are varieties formed from the drillings in
caverns. Iceland spar is a transparent variety, exhibiting the strong
double refraction of the species, and hence is called doubly
refracting spar.

CALCITRANT
Cal"ci*trant, a. Etym: [L. calcitrans, p. pr. of calcitrare to kick,
fr. calx, calcis , heel.]

Defn: Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.

CALCITRATE
Cal"ci*trate, v. i. & i. Etym: [L. calcitratus, p. p. of calcitrare.
See Calcitrant.]

Defn: To kick.

CALCITRATION
Cal`ci*tra"tion, n.

Defn: Act of kicking.

CALCIUM
Cal"ci*um, n. Etym: [NL., from L. calx, calcis, lime; cf F. calcium.
See Calx.] (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen
forms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable.
It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight
40. Symbol Ca.

Note: Calcium is widely and abundantly disseminated, as in its
compounds calcium carbonate or limestone, calcium sulphate or gypsum,
calcium fluoride or fluor spar, calcium phosphate or apatite. Calcium
light, an intense light produced by the incandescence of a stick or
ball of lime in the flame of a combination of oxygen and hydrogen
gases, or of oxygen and coal gas; -- called also Drummond light.

CALCIVOROUS
Cal*civ"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. calx lime + vorare to devour.]

Defn: Eroding, or eating into, limestone.

CALCOGRAPHER
Cal*cog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who practices calcography.

CALCOGRAPHIC; CALCOGRAPHICAL
Cal`co*graph"ic, Cal`co*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.

CALCOGRAPHY
Cal*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime, chalk + -graphy.]

Defn: The art of drawing with chalk.

CALC-SINTER
Calc"-sin`ter, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx, calcis) lime + E. sinter.]

Defn: See under Calcite.

CALC-SPAR
Calc"-spar`, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx) lime E. spar.]

Defn: Same as Calcite.

CALC-TUFA
Calc"-tu`fa, n. Etym: [G. kalk (l. calx) lime + E. tufa.]

Defn: See under Calcite.

CALCULABLE
Cal"cu*la*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. calculable.]

Defn: That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.

CALCULARY
Cal"cu*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. calculus a pebble, a calculus; cf
calcularius pertaining to calculation.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to calculi.

CALCULARY
Cal"cu*la*ry, n.

Defn: A congeries of little stony knots found in the pulp of the pear
and other fruits.

CALCULATE
Cal"cu*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calculater; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calculating.] Etym: [L, calculatus, p. p. of calculate, fr. calculus
a pebble, a stone used in reckoning; hence, a reckoning, fr. calx,
calcis, a stone used in gaming, limestone. See Calx.]

1. To ascertain or determine by mathematical processes, usually by
the ordinary rules of arithmetic; to reckon up; to estimate; to
compute.
A calencar exacity calculated than any othe. North.

2. To ascertain or predict by mathematical or astrological
computations the time, circumstances, or other conditions of; to
forecast or compute the character or consequences of; as, to
calculate or cast one's nativity.
A cunning man did calculate my birth. Shak.

3. To adjust for purpose; to adapt by forethought or calculation; to
fit or prepare by the adaptation of means to an end; as, to calculate
a system of laws for the government and protection of a free people.
[Religion] is . . . calculated for our benefit. Abp. Tillotson.

4. To plan; to expect; to think. [Local, U. S.]

Syn.
 -- To compute; reckon; count; estimate; rate.
 -- To Calculate, Compute. Reckon, Count. These words indicate the
means by which we arrive at a given result in regard to quantity. We
calculate with a view to obtain a certain point of knowledge; as, to
calculate an eclipse. We compute by combining given numbers, in order
to learn the grand result. We reckon and count in carrying out the
details of a computation. These words are also used in a secondary
and figurative sense. "Calculate is rather a conjection from what is,
as to what may be; computation is a rational estimate of what has
been, from what is; reckoning is a conclusive conviction, a pleasing
assurance that a thing will happen; counting indicates an
expectation. We calculate on a gain; we compute any loss sustained,
or the amount of any mischief done; we reckon on a promised pleasure;
we count the hours and minutes until the time of enjoyment arrives"
Crabb.

CALCULATE
Cal"cu*late, v. i.

Defn: To make a calculation; to forecast caonsequences; to estimate;
to compute.
The strong passions, whether good or bad, never calculate. F. W.
Robertson.

CALCULATED
Cal"cu*la`ted, p. p. & a.

1. Worked out by calculation; as calculated tables for computing
interest; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation; as,
the calculated place of a planet; the calculated velocity of a cannon
ball.

2. Adapted by calculation, contrivance. or forethought to accomplish
a purpose; as, to use arts calculated to deceive the people.

3. Likely to produce a certain effect, whether intended or not;
fitted; adapted; suited.
The only danger that attends multiplicity of publication is, that
some of them may be calculated to injure rather than benefit society.
Goldsmith.
The minister, on the other hand, had never gone through an experience
calculated to lead him beyond the scope of generally received laws.
Hawthorne.

CALCULATING
Cal"cu*la`ting, a.

1. Of or pertaining to mathematical calculations; performing or able
to perform mathematical calculations.

2. Given to contrivance or forethought; forecasting; scheming; as, a
cool calculating disposition. Calculating machine, a machine for the
mechanical performance of mathematical operations, for the most part
invented by Charles Babbage and G. and E. Scheutz. It computes
logarithmic and other mathematical tables of a high degree of
intricacy, imprinting the results on a leaden plate, from which a
stereotype plate is then directly made.

CALCULATING
Cal"cu*la`ting, n.

Defn: The act or process of making mathematical computations or of
estimating results.

CALCULATION
Cal`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [OE. calculation, fr. L. calculatio; cf. OF.
calcucation.]

1. The act or process, or the result, of calculating; computation;
reckoning, estimate. "The calculation of eclipses." Nichol.
The mountain is not so his calculation makes it. Boyle.

2. An expectation based on cirumstances.
The lazy gossips of the port, Abborrent of a calculation crost, Began
to chafe as at a personal wrong. Tennyson.

CALCULATIVE
Cal"cu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.
Long habits of calculative dealings. Burke.

CALCULATOR
Cal"cu*la*tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. calculateur.]

Defn: One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the
force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of
the effects.
Ambition is no exact calculator. Burke.

CALCULATORY
Cal"cu*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. calculatorius.]

Defn: Belonging to calculation. Sherwood.

CALCULE
Cal"cule, n. Etym: [F. calcul, fr. L. calculus. See Calculus.]

Defn: Reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Howell.

CALCULE
Cal"cule, v. i.

Defn: To calculate [Obs.] Chaucer.

CALCULI
Cal"cu*li, n. pl.

Defn: See Calculus.

CALCULOUS
Cal"cu*lous, a. Etym: [L. calculosus.]

1. Of the nature of a calculus; like stone; gritty; as, a calculous
concretion. Sir T. Browne.

2. Caused, or characterized, by the presence of a calculus or
calculi; a, a calculous disorder; affected with gravel or stone; as,
a calculous person.

CALCULUS
Cal"cu*lus, n.; pl. Calculi Etym: [L, calculus. See Calculate, and
Calcule.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most
frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages
connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A method of computation; any process of reasoning by the use of
symbols; any branch of mathematics that may involve calculation.
Barycentric calculus, a method of treating geometry by defining a
point as the center of gravity of certain other points to which
coëfficients or weights are ascribed.
 -- Calculus of functions, that branch of mathematics which treats of
the forms of functions that shall satisfy given conditions.
 -- Calculus of operations, that branch of mathematical logic that
treats of all operations that satisfy given conditions.
 -- Calculus of probabilities, the science that treats of the
computation of the probabilities of events, or the application of
numbers to chance.
 -- Calculus of variations, a branch of mathematics in which the laws
of dependence which bind the variable quantities together are
themselves subject to change.
 -- Differential calculus, a method of investigating mathematical
questions by using the ratio of certain indefinitely small quantities
called differentials. The problems are primarily of this form: to
find how the change in some variable quantity alters at each instant
the value of a quantity dependent upon it.
 -- Exponential calculus, that part of algebra which treats of
exponents.
 -- Imaginary calculus, a method of investigating the relations of
real or imaginary quantities by the use of the imaginary symbols and
quantities of algebra.
 -- Integral calculus, a method which in the reverse of the
differential, the primary object of which is to learn from the known
ratio of the indefinitely small changes of two or more magnitudes,
the relation of the magnitudes themselves, or, in other words, from
having the differential of an algebraic expression to find the
expression itself.

CALDRON
Cal"dron, n. Etym: [OE. caldron, caudron, caudroun, OF. caudron,
chauderon, F. chaudron, an aug. of F. chaudière, LL. caldaria, fr. L.
caldarius suitable for warming, fr. caldus, calidus, warm, fr. calere
to be warm; cf. Skr. çra to boil. Cf. Chaldron, Calaric, Caudle.]

Defn: A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Written
also cauldron.] "Caldrons of boiling oil." Prescott.

CALECHE
Ca*lèche", n. Etym: [F. calèche.]

Defn: See Calash.

CALEDONIA
Cal`e*do"ni*a, n.

Defn: The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.

CALEDONIAN
Cal`e*do"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Caledonia or Scotland.

CALEDONITE
Ca*led"o*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of
Caledonia or Scotland.

CALEFACIENT
Cal`e*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. calefaciens p. pr. of calefacere to make
warm; calere to be warm + facere to make.]

Defn: Making warm; heating. [R.]

CALEFACIENT
Cal`e*fa"cient, n.

Defn: A substance that excites warmth in the parts to which it is
applied, as mustard.

CALEFACTION
Cal`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. calefactio: cf. F. caléfaction.]

1. The act of warming or heating; the production of heat in a body by
the action of fire, or by communication of heat from other bodies.

2. The state of being heated.

CALEFACTIVE
Cal`e*fac"tive, a.

Defn: See Calefactory. [R.]

CALEFACTOR
Cal`e*fac"tor, n.

Defn: A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.

CALEFACTORY
Cal`e*fac"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. calefactorius.]

Defn: Making hot; producing or communicating heat.

CALEFACTORY
Cal`e*fac"to*ry, n.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: An apartment in a monastery, warmed and used as a sitting room.

2. A hollow sphere of metal, filled with hot water, or a chafing
dish, placed on the altar in cold weather for the priest to warm his
hands with.

CALEFY
Cal"e*fy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calefied; p. pr. & vb. n. Calefying.]
Etym: [L. calere to be warm + -fy]

Defn: To make warm or hot.

CALEFY
Cal"e*fy, v. i.

Defn: To grow hot or warm. Sir T. Browne.

CALEMBOUR
Cal"em*bour`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A pun.

CALENDAR
Cal"en*dar, n. Etym: [OE. kalender, calender, fr. L. kalendarium an
interest or account book (cf. F. calendrier, OF. calendier) fr. L.
calendue, kalendae, calends. See Calends.]

1. An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the
purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a
register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints'
days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according
to the varying date of Easter.

3. An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a
schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills
presented in a legislative assemblly; a calendar of causes arranged
for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy.

Note: Shepherds of people had need know the calendars of tempests of
state. Bacon. Calendar clock, one that shows the days of the week and
month.
 -- Calendar month. See under Month.
 -- French Republican calendar. See under Vendémiaire.
 -- Gregorian calendar, Julian calendar, Perpetual calendar. See
under Gregorian, Julian, and Perpetual.

CALENDAR
Cal"en*dar, v. t. [Imp. & p. p. Calendared; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calendaring.]

Defn: To enter or write in a calendar; to register. Waterhouse.

CALENDARIAL
Cal`en*da"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.

CALENDARY
Cal"en*da*ry, a.

Defn: Calendarial. [Obs.]

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, n. Etym: [F. calandre, LL. calendra, corrupted fr. L.
cylindrus a cylinder, Gr. Cylinider.]

1. A machine, used for the purpose of giving cloth, paper, etc., a
smooth, even, and glossy or glazed surface, by cold or hot pressure,
or for watering them and giving them a wavy appearance. It consists
of two or more cylinders revolving nearly in contact, with the
necessary apparatus for moving and regulating.

2. One who pursues the business of calendering.
My good friend the calender. Cawper.

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calendered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calendering.] Etym: [Cf. F. calandrer. See Calender, n.]

Defn: To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth and
glossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc. Ure.

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, n. Etym: [Per. qalender.]

Defn: One of a sect or order of fantastically dressed or painted
dervishes.

CALENDOGRAPHER
Cal`en*dog"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Calendar + -graph + er.]

Defn: One who makes calendars. [R.]

CALENDRER
Cal"en*drer, n.

Defn: A person who calenders cloth; a calender.

CALENDRIC; CALENDRICAL
Ca*len"dric, Ca*len"dric*al, a.,

Defn: Of or pertaining to a calendar.

CALENDS
Cal"ends, n. pl. Etym: [OE. kalendes month, calends, AS. calend
month, fr. L. calendae; akin to calare to call, proclaim, Gr. Claim.]

Defn: The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.
[Written also kalends.] The Greek calends, a time that will never
come, as the Greeks had no calends.

CALENDULA
Ca*len"du*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calendae calends.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendula
officinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom on
the calends of every month, whence the name.

CALENDULIN
Ca*len"du*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the
marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.

CALENTURE
Cal"en*ture, n. Etym: [F. calenture, fr. Sp. calenture heat, fever,
fr. calentar to heat, fr. p. pr. of L. calere to be warm.] (Med.)

Defn: A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics;
esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among
sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea
to be a green field, and to throw himself into it.

CALENTURE
Cal"en*ture, v. i.

Defn: To see as in the delirium of one affected with calenture.
[Poetic]
Hath fed on pageants floating through the air Or calentures in depths
of limpid flood. Wordsworth.

CALESCENCE
Ca*les"cence, n. Etym: [L. calescens, p.pr. of calescere, incho. of
calere to be warm.]

Defn: Growing warmth; increasing heat.

CALF
Calf, n.; pl. Calves. Etym: [OE. calf, kelf, AS. cealf; akin to D.
kalf, G. kalb, Icel. kalfr, Sw. kalf, Dan. kalv, Goth. kalbo; cf.
Skr. garbha fetus, young, Gr. grabh to seize, conceive, Ir. colpa,
colpach, a calf. *222.]

1. The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also,
the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros,
hippopotamus, and whale.

2. Leather made of the skin of the calf; especially, a fine, light-
colored leather used in bookbinding; as, to bind books in calf.

3. An awkward or silly boy or young man; any silly person; a dolt.
[Colloq.]
Some silly, doting, brainless calf. Drayton.

4. A small island near a larger; as, the Calf of Man.

5. A small mass of ice set free from the submerged part of a glacier
or berg, and rising to the surface. Kane.

6. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kalfi.]

Defn: The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee. Calf's-foot
jelly, jelly made from the feet of calves. The gelatinous matter of
the feet is extracted by boiling, and is flavored with sugar,
essences, etc.

CALFSKIN
Calf"skin`, n.

Defn: The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.

CALI
Ca"li, n. (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu. [Written
also Kali.]

CALIBER; CALIBRE
Cal"i*ber, Cal"ibre, n. Etym: [F. calibre, perh. fr. L. qualibra of
what pound, of what weight; hence, of what size, applied first to a
ball or bullet; cf. also Ar. qalib model, mold. Cf. Calipers,
Calivere.]

1. (Gunnery)

Defn: The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of
any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm
will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.
The caliber of empty tubes. Reid.
A battery composed of three guns of small caliber. Prescott.

Note: The caliber of firearms is expressed in various ways. Cannon
are often designated by the weight of a solid spherical shot that
will fit the bore; as, a 12-pounder; pieces of ordnance that project
shell or hollow shot are designated by the diameter of their bore;
as, a 12 inch mortar or a 14 inch shell gun; small arms are
designated by hundredths of an inch expressed decimally; as, a rifle
of .44 inch caliber.

2. The diameter of round or cylindrical body, as of a bullet or
column.

3. Fig.: Capacity or compass of mind. Burke. Caliber compasses. See
Calipers.
 -- Caliber rule, a gunner's calipers, an instrument having two
scales arranged to determine a ball's weight from its diameter, and
conversely.
 -- A ship's caliber, the weight of her armament.

CALIBRATE
Cal"i*brate, v. i.

Defn: To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also,
more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the
various standards or graduated instruments.

CALIBRATION
Cal`ibra"*tion, n.

Defn: The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a
thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees;
also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the
spaces in any graduated instrument.

CALICE
Cal"ice, n. Etym: [See Calice.]

Defn: See Chalice.

CALICLE
Cal"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. caliculus a small cup, dim. of calicis, a
cup. Cf Calycle.] (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the small cuplike cavities, often with elevated borders,
covering the surface of most corals. Each is formed by a polyp. (b)
One of the cuplike structures inclosing the zooids of certain
hydroids. See Campanularian. [Written also calycle. See Calycle.]

CALICO
Cal"i*co, n.; pl. Calicoes. Etym: [So called because first imported
from Calicut, in the East Indies: cf. F. calicot.]

1. Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive
names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting
calicoes, unbleached calicoes, etc. [Eng.]
The importation of printed or stained colicoes appears to have been
coeval with the establishment of the East India Company. Beck
(Draper's Dict. ).

2. Cotton cloth printed with a figured pattern.

Note: In the United States the term calico is applied only to the
printed fabric. Calico bass (Zoöl.), an edible, fresh-water fish
(Pomoxys sparaides) of the rivers and lake of the Western United
States (esp. of the Misissippi valley.), allied to the sunfishes, and
so called from its variegated colors; -- called also calicoback,
grass bass, strawberry bass, barfish, and bitterhead.
 -- Calico printing, the art or process of impressing the figured
patterns on calico.

CALICO
Cal"i*co, a.

Defn: Made of, or having the apperance of, calico; -- often applied
to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a
color strikingly different from its main color. [Colloq. U. S.]

CALICOBACK
Cal"i*co*back`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The calico bass.
(b) An hemipterous insect (Murgantia histrionica) which injures the
cabbage and other garden plants; -- called also calico bug and
harlequin cabbage bug.

CALICULAR; CALICULATE
Ca*lic"u*lar, a. Ca*lic"u*late, a.

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for
calycular, calyculate.

CALID
Cal"id, a. Etym: [L. calidus, fr. calere to be hot.]

Defn: Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey.

CALIDITY
Ca*lid"i*ty, n.

Defn: Heat. [Obs.]

CALIDUCT
Cal"i*duct, n. Etym: [See Caloriduct.]

Defn: A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.
Subterranean caliducts have been introduced. Evelyn.

CALIF; CALIFATE
Ca"lif, n., Cal"i*fate, n., etc.

Defn: Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.

CALIFORNIA JACK
Cal`i*for"ni*a jack".

Defn: A game at cards, a modification of seven-up, or all fours.

CALIFORNIAN
Cal`i*for"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to California.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of California.

CALIGATION
Cal`i*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. caligatio, fr. caligare to emit vapor, to
be dark, from caligo mist, darkness.]

Defn: Dimness; cloudiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

CALIGINOSITY
Ca*lig`i*nos"ity, n. Etym: [L. caliginosus dark. See Caligation.]

Defn: Darkness. [R.] G. Eliot.

CALIGINOUS
Ca*lig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. caliginosus; cf. F. caligineux.]

Defn: Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure. [R.] Blount.
The caliginous regions of the air. Hallywell.
-- Ca*lig"i*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lig"i*nous*ness, n.

CALIGO
Ca*li"go, n. Etym: [L., darkness.] (Med.)

Defn: Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the
cornea; also, the speck itself.

CALIGRAPHIC
Cal`i*graph"ic, a.

Defn: See Calligraphic.

CALIGRAPHY
Ca*lig"ra*phy, n.

Defn: See Caligraphy.

CALIN
Ca"lin, n. Etym: [F., fr. Malay kelany tin, or fr. Kala'a, a town in
India, fr. which it came.]

Defn: An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea
canisters.

CALIPASH
Cal`i*pash", n. Etym: [F. carapace, Sp. carapacho. Cf Calarash,
Carapace.]

Defn: A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. It
contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge,
much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.

CALIPEE
Cal"i*pee, n. Etym: [See Calipash]

Defn: A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. It
contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color,
much esteemed as a delicacy. Thackeray.

CALIPERS
Cal"i*pers, n. pl. Etym: [Corrupted from caliber.]

Defn: An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or
compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness
of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts,
shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called also
caliper compasses, or caliber compasses. Caliper square, a
draughtsman's or mechanic's square, having a graduated bar and
adjustable jaw or jaws. Knight.
 -- Vernier calipers. See Vernier.

CALIPH
Ca"liph, n. Etym: [OE. caliphe, califfe, F. calife (cf. Sp. califa),
fr. Ar. khalifan successor, fr. khalafa to succed.]

Defn: Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed
both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of
Turkey, [Writting also calif.]

CALIPHATE
Cal"i*phate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. califat.]

Defn: The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the
caliphs.

CALIPPIC
Ca*lip"pic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer. Calippic
period, a period of seventy-six years, proposed by Calippus, as an
improvement on the Metonic cycle, since the 6940 days of the Metonic
cycle exceeded 19 years by about a quarter of a day, and exceeded 235
lunations by something more.

CALISAYA BARK
Cal`i*sa"ya bark.

Defn: A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the Cinchona
Calisaya, and other closely related species.

CALISTHENEUM
Cal`is*the"ne*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and
children.

CALISTHENIC
Cal`is*then"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to calisthenics.

CALISTHENICS
Cal`is*then"ics, n.

Defn: The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body
and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.

CALIVER
Cal"i*ver, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. caliber.]

Defn: An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally
a gun having a regular size of bore. [Obs.] Shak.

CALIX
Ca"lix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A cup. See Calyx.

CALK
Calk, v. t. [imp. &p. p. Calked; p. pr. & vb. n. Calking.] Etym:
[Either corrupted fr. F. calfater (cf. Pg. calafetar, Sp.
calafetear), fr. Ar. qalafa to fill up crevices with the fibers of
palm tree or moss; or fr. OE. cauken to tred, through the French fr.
L. calcare, fr. calx heel. Cf. Calk to copy, Inculcate.]

1. To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a
ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking. The calking is completed by
smearing the seams with melted pitch.

2. To make an indentation in the edge of a metal plate, as along a
seam in a steam boiler or an iron ship, to force the edge of the
upper plate hard against the lower and so fill the crevice.

CALK
Calk, v. t. Etym: [E.calquer to trace, It. caicare to trace, to
trample, fr. L. calcare to trample, fr. calx heel. Cf. Calcarate.]

Defn: To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or
black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines,
so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it
is laid or held. [Writting also calque]

CALK
Calk, n. Etym: [Cf. AS calc shoe, hoof, L. calx, calcis, hel, cälcar,
spur.]

1. A sharp-pointed piece or iron or steel projecting downward on the
shoe of a nore or an ox, to prevent the animal from slipping; --
called also calker, calkin.

2. An instrument with sharp points, worn on the sole of a shoe or
boot, to prevent slipping.

CALK
Calk, v. i.

1. To furnish with calks, to prevent slipping on ice; as, to calk the
shoes of a horse or an ox.

2. To wound with a calk; as when a horse injures a leg or a foot with
a calk on one of the other feet.

CALKER
Calk"er, n.

1. One who calks.

2. A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.

CALKIN
Calk"in, n.

Defn: A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.

CALKING
Calk"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of
furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing. Calking
iron, a tool like a chisel, used in calking ships, tightening seams
in ironwork, etc.
Their left hand does the calking iron guide. Dryden.

CALL
Call, v. i. [imp.& p. p. Called; p. r. & vb. n. Calling] Etym: [OE.
callen, AS. ceallin; akin to Icel & Sw. kalla, Dan. kalde, D. kallen
to talk, prate, Gr. gar to praise. Cf. Garrulous.]

1. To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to
call a servant.
Call hither Clifford; bid him come amain Shak.

2. To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for
an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; --
often used of a divine summons; as, to be called to the ministry;
sometimes, to invite; as, to call a minister to be the pastor of a
church.
Paul . . . called to be an apostle Rom. i. 1.
The Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work
whereunto I have called them. Acts xiii. 2.

3. To invite or command to meet; to convoke; -- often with together;
as, the President called Congress together; to appoint and summon;
as, to call a meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
Now call we our high court of Parliament. Shak.

4. To give name to; to name; to address, or speak of, by a specifed
name.
If you would but call me Rosalind. Shak.
And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. Gen.
i. 5.

5. To regard or characterize as of a certain kind; to denominate; to
designate.
What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common. Acts x. 15.

6. To state, or estimate, approximately or loosely; to characterize
without strict regard to fact; as, they call the distance ten miles;
he called it a full day's work.
[The] army is called seven hundred thousand men. Brougham.

7. To show or disclose the class, character, or nationality of.
[Obs.]
This speech calls him Spaniard. Beau. & Fl.

8. To utter in a loud or distinct voice; -- often with off; as, to
call, or call off, the items of an account; to call the roll of a
military company.
No parish clerk who calls the psalm so clear. Gay.

9. To invoke; to appeal to.
I call God for a witness. 2 Cor. i. 23 [Rev. Ver. ]

10. To rouse from sleep; to awaken.
If thou canst awake by four o' the clock. I prithee call me. Sleep
hath seized me wholly. Shak.
To call a bond, to give notice that the amount of the bond will be
paid.
 -- To call a party (Law), to cry aloud his name in open court, and
command him to come in and perform some duty requiring his presence
at the time on pain of what may befall him.
 -- To call back, to revoke or retract; to recall; to summon back.
 -- To call down, to pray for, as blessing or curses.
 -- To call forth, to bring or summon to action; as, to call forth
all the faculties of the mind.
 -- To call in, (a) To collect; as, to call in debts or money; ar to
withdraw from cirulation; as, to call in uncurrent coin. (b) To
summon to one's side; to invite to come together; as, to call in
neighbors.
 -- To call (any one) names, to apply contemptuous names (to any
one).
 -- To call off, to summon away; to divert; as, to call off the
attention; to call off workmen from their employment.
 -- To call out. (a) To summon to fight; to challenge. (b) To summon
into service; as, to call out the militia.
 -- To call over, to recite separate particulars in order, as a roll
of names.
 -- To call to account, to demand explanation of.
 -- To call to mind, to recollect; to revive in memory.
 -- To call to order, to request to come to order; as: (a) A public
meeting, when opening it for business. (b) A person, when he is
transgressing the rules of debate.
 -- To call to the bar, to admit to practice in courts of law.
 -- To call up. (a) To bring into view or recollection; as to call up
the image of deceased friend. (b) To bring into action or discussion;
to demand the consideration of; as, to call up a bill before a
legislative body.

Syn.
 -- To name; denominate; invite; bid; summon; convoke; assemble;
collect; exhort; warn; proclaim; invoke; appeal to; designate. To
Call, Convoke, Summon. Call is the generic term; as, to call a public
meeting. To convoke is to require the assembling of some organized
body of men by an act of authority; as, the king convoked Parliament.
To summon is to require attendance by an act more or less stringent
anthority; as, to summon a witness.

CALL
Call, v. i.

1. To speak in loud voice; to cry out; to address by name; --
sometimes with to.
You must call to the nurse. Shak.
The angel of God called to Hagar. Gen. xxi. 17.

2. To make a demand, requirement, or request.
They called for rooms, and he showed them one. Bunyan.

3. To make a brief visit; also, to stop at some place designated, as
for orders.
He ordered her to call at the house once a week. Temple.
To call for (a) To demand; to require; as, a crime calls for
punishment; a survey, grant, or deed calls for the metes and bounds,
or the quantity of land, etc., which it describes. (b) To give an
order for; to request. "Whenever the coach stopped, the sailor called
for more ale." Marryat.
 -- To call on, To call upon, (a) To make a short visit to; as, call
on a friend. (b) To appeal to; to invite; to request earnestly; as,
to call upon a person to make a speech. (c) To solicit payment, or
make a demand, of a debt. (d) To invoke or play to; to worship; as,
to call upon God.
 -- To call out To call or utter loudly; to brawl.

CALL
Call, n.

1. The act of calling; -- usually with the voice, but often
otherwise, as by signs, the sound of some instrument, or by writing;
a summons; an entreaty; an invitation; as, a call for help; the
bugle's call. "Call of the trumpet." Shak.
I rose as at thy call, but found thee not. Milton.

2. A signal, as on a drum, bugle, trumpet, or pipe, to summon
soldiers or sailors to duty.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its
pastor.

4. A requirement or appeal arising from the circumstances of the
case; a moral requirement or appeal.
Dependence is a perpetual call upon hummanity. Addison.
Running into danger without any call of duty. Macaulay.

5. A divine vocation or summons.
St. Paul himself believed he did well, and that he had a call to it,
when he persecuted the Christians. Locke.

6. Vocation; employment.

Note: [In this sense, calling is generally used.]

7. A short visit; as, to make a call on a neighbor; also, the daily
coming of a tradesman to solicit orders.
The baker's punctual call. Cowper.

8. (Hunting)

Defn: A note blown on the horn to encourage the hounds.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: A whistle or pipe, used by the boatswain and his mate, to
summon the sailors to duty.

10. (Fowling)

Defn: The cry of a bird; also a noise or cry in imitation of a bird;
or a pipe to call birds by imitating their note or cry.

11. (Amer. Land Law)

Defn: A reference to, or statement of, an object, course, distance,
or other matter of description in a survey or grant reguiring or
calling for a carresponding object, etc., on the land.

12. The privilege to demand the delivery of stock, grain, or any
commodity, at a fixed, price, at or within a certain time agreed on.
[Brokers' Cant]

13. See Assessment, 4. At call, or On call, liable to be demanded at
any moment without previous notice; as money on deposit.
 -- Call bird, a bird taught to allure others into a snare.
 -- Call boy (a) A boy who calls the actors in a theater; a boy who
transmits the orders of the captain of a vessel to the engineer,
helmsman, etc. (b) A waiting boy who answers a cal, or cames at the
ringing of a bell; a bell boy.
 -- Call note, the note naturally used by the male bird to call the
female. It is artifically applied by birdcatchers as a decoy. Latham.
 -- Call of the house (Legislative Bodies), a calling over the names
of members, to discover who is absent, or for other purposes; a
calling of names with a view to obtaining the ayes and noes from the
persons named.
 -- Call to the bar, admission to practice in the courts.

CALLA
Cal"la, n. Etym: [Linnæus derived Calla fr. Gr. calla, calsa, name of
an unknown plant, and Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, of the order Araceæ.

Note: The common Calla of cultivation is Richardia Africana,
belonging to another genus of the same order. Its large spathe is
pure white, surrounding a fleshy spike, which is covered with minute
apetalous flowers.

CALLAT
Cal"lat, n.

Defn: Same as Callet. [Obs.]
A callat of boundless tongue. Shak.

CALLE
Calle, n. Etym: [See Caul.]

Defn: A kind of head covering; a caul. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CALLER
Call"er, n.

Defn: One who calls.

CALLER
Cal"ler, a. [Scot.]

1. Cool; refreshing; fresh; as, a caller day; the caller air.
Jamieson.

2. Fresh; in good condition; as, caller berrings.

CALLET
Cal"let, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. & Gael. caile a country woman, strumpet.]

Defn: A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip. [Obs.] [Written also
callat.]

CALLET
Cal"let v. i.

Defn: To rail or scold. [Obs.] Brathwait.

CALLID
Cal"lid, a. Etym: [L. callidus, fr. callere to be thick-skinned, to
be hardened, to be practiced, fr. callum, callus, callous skin,
callosity, callousness.]

Defn: Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty. [R.]

CALLIDITY
Cal*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. calliditas.]

Defn: Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness. [R.]
Her eagly-eyed callidity. C. Smart.

CALLIGRAPHER
Cal*lig"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.

CALLIGRAPHIC; CALLIGRAPHICAL
Cal`li*graph"ic, Cal`li*graph"ic*al, a., Etym: [Gr. calligraphique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to calligraphy.
Excellence in the calligraphic act. T. Warton.

CALLIGRAPHIST
Cal*lig"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A calligrapher

CALLIGRAPHY
Cal*lig"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. calligraphie.]

Defn: Fair or elegant penmanship.

CALLING
Call"ing, n.

1. The act of one who calls; a crying aloud, esp. in order to summon,
or to attact the attention of, some one.

2. A summoning or convocation, as of Parliament.
The frequent calling and meeting of Parlaiment. Macaulay.

3. A divine summons or invitation; also, the state of being divinely
called.
Who hath . . . called us with an holy calling. 2 Tim. i. 9.
Give diligence to make yior calling . . . sure. 2 Pet. i. 10.

4. A naming, or inviting; a reading over or reciting in order, or a
call of names with a view to obtaining an answer, as in legislative
bodies.

5. One's usual occupation, or employment; vocation; business; trade.
The humble calling of ter female parent. Thackeray.

6. The persons, collectively, engaged in any particular professions
or employment.
To impose celibacy on wholy callings. Hammond.

7. Title; appellation; name. [Obs.]
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son His youngest son, and would
not change that calling. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Occupation; employment; business; trade; profession; office;
engagement; vocation.

CALLIOPE
Cal*li"o*pe, n. Etym: [L. Calliope, Gr. kalli- (from kallos
beautiful) +

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; mother
of Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the astreids. See Solar.

3. A musical instrument consisting of series of steam whistles, toned
to the notes of the scale, and played by keys arranged like those of
an organ. It is sometimes attached to steamboat boilers.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beautuful species of humming bird (Stellula Calliope) of
California and adjacent regions.

CALLIOPSIS
Cal`li*op"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. (Bot.)

Defn: A popular name given to a few species of the genus Careopsis,
especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.

CALLIPASH
Cal`li*pash" (, n.

Defn: See Calipash.

CALLIPEE
Cal`li*pee" (, n.

Defn: See Calipee.

CALLIPERS
Cal`li*pers (, n. pl.

Defn: See Calipers.

CALLISECTION
Cal`li*sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. callere to be insensible + E. section.]

Defn: Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection. B. G. Wilder.

CALLISTHENIC; CALLISTHENICS
Cal`lis*then"ic, a., Cal`lis*then"ics, n.

Defn: See Calisthenic, Calisthenics.

CALLITHUMP
Cal"li*thump`, n.

Defn: A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tin
horus, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; a
charivari. [U. S.]

CALLITHUMPIAN
Cal`li*thump"i*an, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump. [U. S.]

CALLOSAN
Cal*lo"san, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of the callosum.

CALLOSE
Cal"lose, a. Etym: [See Callous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.

CALLOSITY
Cal*los"i*ty, n.; pl. Callosities. Etym: [L. callasitas; cf. F.
calosté.]

Defn: A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening and
thickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result of
continued pressure or friction.

CALLOSUM
Cal*lo"sum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. callosus callous, hard.] (Anat.)

Defn: The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebral
hemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus.

CALLOT
Cal"lot, n.

Defn: A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte. B. Jonson.

CALLOUS
Cal"lous, a. Etym: [L. callosus callous hard, fr. callum, callus,
callous skin: cf. F. calleux.]

1. Hardenes; indurated. "A callous hand." Goldsmith. "A callous
ulcer." Dunglison.

2. Hardened in mind; insensible; unfeeling; unsusceptible. "The
callous diplomatist." Macaulay.
It is an immense blessing to be perfectly callous to ridicule. T.
Arnold.

Syn.
 -- Obdurate; hard; hardened; indurated; insensible; unfeeling;
unsusceptible. See Obdurate.
 -- Cal"lous*ly, adv.
 -- Cal"lous*ness, n.
A callousness and numbness of soul. Bentley.

CALLOW
Cal"low, a. Etym: [OE. calewe, calu, bald, AS. calu; akin to D. kaal,
OHG. chalo, G. Kuhl; cf. L. calvus.]

1. Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.
An in the leafy summit, spied a nest, Which, o'er the callow young, a
sparrow pressed. Dryden.

2. Immature; boyish; "green"; as, a callow youth.
I perceive by this, thou art but a callow maid. Old Play [1675].

CALLOW
Cal*low", n. (Zoöl.) Etym: [Named from its note.]

Defn: A kind of duck. See Old squaw.

CALLUS
Cal"lus, n. Etym: [L. See Callous.]

1. (Med.)
(a) Same as Callosity. (b

Defn: The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded
at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in
consistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unites
the fragments into a single piece.

2. (Hort.)

Defn: The new formation over the end of a cutting, before it puts out
rootlets.

CALM
Calm, n. Etym: [OE. calme, F. calme, fr. It. or Sp. calma (cf. Pg.
calma heat), prob. fr. LL. cauma heat, fr. Gr. Caustic]

Defn: Freodom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or
abeence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or
waves; tranquility; stilness; quiet; serenity.
The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Mark. iv. 39.
A calm before a storm is commonly a peace of a man's own making.
South.

CALM
Calm, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Calming.] Etym:
[Cf. F. calmer. See Calm, n.]

1. To make calm; to render still or quet, as elements; as, to calm
the winds.
To calm the tempest raised by Eolus. Dryden.

2. To deliver from agitation or excitement; to still or soothe, as
the mind or passions.
Passions which seem somewhat calmed.

Syn.
 -- To still; quiet; appease; ally; pacigy; tranquilize; soothe;
compose; assuage; check; restrain.

CALM
Calm, a. [compar. Calmer; super. Calmest]

1. Not stormy; without motion, as of winds or waves; still; quiet;
serene; undisturbed. "Calm was the day." Spenser.
Now all is calm, and fresh, and still. Bryant.

2. Undisturbed by passion or emotion; not agitated or excited;
tranquil; quiet in act or speech. "Calm and sinless peace." Milton.
"With calm attention." Pope.
Such calm old age as conscience pure And self-commanding hearts
ensure. Keble.

Syn.
 -- Still; quiet; undisturbed; tranquil; peaceful; serene; composed;
unruffled; sedate; collected; placid.

CALMER
Calm"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, makes calm.

CALMLY
Calm"ly, adv.

Defn: In a calm manner.
The gentle stream which calmly flows. Denham.

CALMNESS
Calm"ness, n.

Defn: The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity;
self-repose.
The gentle calmness of the flood. Denham.
Hes calmness was the repose of conscious power. E. Everett.

Syn.
 -- Quietness; quietude; stillness; tranquillity; serenity; repose;
composure; sedateness; placidity.

CALMUCKS
Cal"mucks, n. pl.

Defn: ; sing. Calmuck. A branch of the Mongolian race inbabiting
parts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the language
of the Calmucks. [Written also Kalmucks.]

CALMY
Calm"y, a. Etym: [Fr. Calm, n.]

Defn: Tranquil; peaceful; calm. [Poet.] "A still and calmy day"
Spenser.

CALOMEL
Cal"o*mel, n. Etym: [Gr. calomélas.] (Chem.)

Defn: Mild chloride of mercury, Hg

CALORESCENCE
Cal`o*res"cence, n. Etym: [L. calor heat.] (Physics)

Defn: The conversion of obscure radiant heat info kight; the
transmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.
Tyndall.

CALORIC
Ca*lor"ic, n. Etym: [L. calor heat; cf. F. calorique.] (Physics)

Defn: The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena of
heat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used in
scientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term for
heat.
Caloric expands all bodies. Henry.

CALORIC
Ca*lor"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to caloric. Caloric engine, a kind of engine
operated air.

CALORICITY
Cal`o*ric"ity, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heat
nesessary to life, that is, the animal heat.

CALORIDUCT
Ca*lor"i*duct, n. Etym: [L. calor heat (fr. calere to warm) + E.
duct.]

Defn: A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.

CALORIE
Cal"o*rie, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. calor heat.] (Physics)

Defn: The unit of heat according to the Frensc standard; the amount
of heat requires to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes,
one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0Foot pound.

CALORIFACIENT
Ca*lor`i*fa"cient, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Calorificient.

CALORIFERE
Ca*lor"i*fere, n. Etym: [F. calorifère, fr. L. calor heat + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by
means of hot water circulating in tubes.

CALORIFIANT
Ca*lor`i*fi"ant, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Calorificient.

CALORIFIC
Cal`o*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. calorificus; calor heat + facere to make;
cf. F. calorifique.]

Defn: Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating. Calorific
rays, the invisible, heating rays which emanate from the sum, and
burning and heated bodies.

CALORIFICATION
Ca*lor`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. calorification.]

Defn: Production of heat, esp. animal heat.

CALORIFICIENT
Ca*lor`i*fi"cient, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied
to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to
give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.

CALORIMETER
Cal`o*rim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. calor heat + -meter; cf. F.
calorimètre.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained in
bodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, as
friction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.

2. (Engineering)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the proportion of unevaporated water
contained in steam.

CALORIMETRIC
Ca*lor`i*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to process of using the calorimeter.
Satisfactory calorimetric results. Nichol.

CALORIMETRY
Cal`o*rim"e*try, n. (Physics)

Defn: Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.

CALORIMOTOR
Ca*lor`i*mo"tor, n. Etym: [L. calor heat + E. motor.] (Physics)

Defn: A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, and
producing powerful heating effects.

CALORISATOR
Ca*lor"i*sa`tor, n. [NL., heater, fr. L. calor heat.]

Defn: An apparatus used in beet-sugar factories to heat the juice in
order to aid the diffusion.

CALOTTE; CALLOT
Ca*lotte", Cal"lot, n. Etym: [F. calotte, dim. of cale a sort of flat
cap. Cf. Caul.]

Defn: A close cap without visor or brim. Especially: (a) Such a cap,
worn by English serjeants at law. (b) Such a cap, worn by the French
cavalry under their helmets. (c) Such a cap, worn by the clergy of
the Roman Catholic Church. To assume the calotte, to become a priest.

CALOTYPE
Cal"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. (Photog.)

Defn: A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitized
with iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor,
Mr. Fox. Talbot.

CALOYER
Ca*loy"er, n. Etym: [F., fr. NGr.

Defn: A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of
the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos.

CALQUE
Calque, v. t.

Defn: See 2d Calk, v. t.

CALTROP; CALTRAP
Cal"trop, Cal"trap, n. Etym: [OE. calketrappe, calletrappe, caltor
(in both senses), fr. AS. collræppe, calcetreppe, sort of thistle;
cf. F. chaussetrape star thistle, trap, It. calcatreppo,
calcatreppolo, star thistle. Perh. from L. calx heel + the same word
as E. trap. See 1st Trap.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order
Zygophylleæ, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout
spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name. The
species grow in warm countries, and are often very annoying to
cattle.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: An instrument with four iron points, so disposed that, any
three of them being on the ground, the other projects upward. They
are scattered on the ground where an enemy's cavalry are to pass, to
impede their progress by endangering the horses' feet.

CALUMBA
Ca*lum"ba, n. Etym: [from kalumb, its native name in Mozambique.]
(Med.)

Defn: The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus
palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bitter
taste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic. [Written also colombo,
columbo, and calombo.] American calumba, the Frasera Carolinensis,
also called American gentian. Its root has been used in medicine as
bitter tonic in place of calumba.

CALUMBIN
Ca*lum"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance
from the calumba root. [Written also colombin, and columbin]

CALUMET
Cal"u*met, n. Etym: [F. calumet, fr. L. calamus reed. See Halm, and
cf. Shawm.]

Defn: A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smoking
tobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube is
a long reed often ornamented with feathers.
Smoked the calumet, the Peace pipe, As a signal to the nations.
Lowgfellow.

Note: The calumet is used as a symbol of peace. To accept the calumet
is to agree to terms of peace, and to refuse it is to reject them.
The calumet of peace is used to seal or ratify contracts and
alliances, and as an evidence to strangers that they are welcome.

CALUMNIATE
Ca*lum"ni*ate, v. i. [Imp. & p. p. Calumniated; p. pr. & vb. n.
calumniating.] Etym: [L. calumniatus, p. p. of calumniari. See
Calumny, and cf. Challenge, v. t.]

Defn: To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or of
something disreputable; to slander; to libel.
Hatred unto the truth did always falsely report and calumniate all
godly men's doings. Strype.
Syn.
 -- To asperse; slander; defame; vilify; traduce; belie; bespatter;
blacken; libel. See Asperse.

CALUMNIATE
Ca*lum"ni*ate, v. i.

Defn: To propagate evil reports with a design to injure the
reputation of another; to make purposely false charges of some
offense or crime.

CALUMNIATION
Ca*lum`ni*a"tion, n.

Defn: False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and false
representation of the words or actions of another, with a view to
injure his good name.
The calumniation of her principal counselors. Bacon.

CALUMNIATOR
Ca*lum`ni*a"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who calumniates.

Syn.
 -- Slanderer; defamer; libeler; traducer.

CALUMNIATORY
Ca*lum"ni*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing calumny; slanderous. Montagu.

CALUMNIOUS
Ca*lum"ni*ous, a. Etym: [L. calumniosus.]

Defn: Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injurious
to reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes. Shak.

Syn: Slanderous; defamatory; scurrilous; opprobrious; derogatory;
libelous; abusive.

Syn: -- Ca*lum"ni*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lum"ni*ous*ness, n.

CALUMNY
Cal"um*ny, n.; pl. Calumnies. Etym: [L. calumnia, fr. calvi to devise
tricks, deceive; cf. F. calomnie. Cf. Challenge, n.]

Defn: False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or
reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation;
slander; detraction. "Infamouse calumnies." Motley.
Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
calumny. Shak.

CALVARIA
Cal*va"ri*a, n. Etym: [L. See Calvary.] (Anat.)

Defn: The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of the
domelike upper portion.

CALVARY
Cal"va*ry, n. Etym: [L. calvaria a bare skull, fr. calva the scalp
without hair. fr. calvus bald; cf. F. calvaire.]

1. The place where Christ was crucified, on a small hill outside of
Jerusalem. Luke xxiii. 33.

Note: The Latin calvaria is a translation of the Greek Golgotha. Dr.
W. Smith.

2. A representation of the crucifixion, consisting of three crosses
with the figures of Christ and the thieves, often as large as life,
and sometimes surrounded by figures of other personages who were
present at the crucifixion.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called cross
calvary.

CALVE
Calve, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calved 3; p. pr. & vb. n. Calving.] Etym:
[AS. cealfian. See Calf.]

1. To bring forth a calf. "Their cow calveth." Job xxi. 10.

2. To bring forth young; to produce offspring.
Canst thou mark when the hinds do calve Job xxxix. 1.
The grassy clods now calved. Molton.

CALVER
Cal"ver, v. i.

1. To cut in slices and pickle, as salmon. [Obs.]
For a change, leave calvered salmon and eat sprats. Massinger.

2. To crimp; as, calvered salmon. Nares.

CALVER
Cal"ver, v. i.

Defn: To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling's
flesh will calver. Catton.

CALVESSNOUT
Calves"*snout, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Snapdragon.

CALVINISM
Cal"vin*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Calvinisme.]

Defn: The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a French
theologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or of
the so-called calvinistic churches.

Note: The distinguishing doctrines of this system, usually termed the
five points of Calvinism, are original sin or total depravity,
election or predestination, particular redemption, effectual calling,
and the perseverance of the saints. It has been subject to many
variations and modifications in different churches and at various
times.

CALVINIST
Cal"vin*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Calviniste.]

Defn: A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.

CALVINISTIC; CALVINISTICAL
Cal`vin*is"tic, Cal`vin*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin;
accepting or Teaching Calvinism. "Calvinistic training." Lowell.

CALVINIZE
Cal"vin*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert to Calvinism.

CALVISH
Calv"ish, a.

Defn: Like a calf; stupid. Sheldon.

CALX
Calx, n.; pl. E. Calxes, L. Calces. Etym: [L. Calx, calcis.
limestone; cf. Gr. carraic rock Gael. carraig, W. careg, stone. Cf.
Chalk.]

1. (Chem.)
(a) Quicklime. [Obs.]
(b) The substance which remains when a metal or mineral has been
subjected to calcination or combustion by heat, and which is, or may
be, reduced to a fine powder.

Note: Metallic calxes are now called oxides.

2. Broken and refuse glass, returned to the post.

CALYCIFLORAL; CALLYCIFLOROUS
Ca*lyc`i*flo"ral, cal*lyc`i*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. calyx, -ycis,
calyx + flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied
to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French
botanist Candolle.

CALYCIFORM
Ca*lyc"i*form, a. Etym: [L. calyx, calycis, calyx + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form or appearance of a calyx.

CALYCINAL; CALYCINE
Ca*lyc"i*nal, Cal"y*cine, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx.

CALYCLE
Cal"y*cle, n. Etym: [L.calyculus small flower bud, calyx, dim. of
calyx. See Calyx, and cf. Calicle.] (Bot.)

Defn: A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on the
outside.

CALYCLED
Cal"y*cled, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Calyculate.

CALYCOZOA
Cal`y*co*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The body
is cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. An
aboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided into
four large compartments. See Lucernarida.

CALYCULAR
Ca*lyc"u*lar, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.

CALYCULATE; CALYCULATED
Ca*lyc"u*late, Ca*lyc"u*la`ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx.

CALYMENE
Ca*lym"e*ne, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.

CALYON
Cal"yon, n.

Defn: Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. Haliwell.

CALYPSO
Ca*lyp"so, n. Etym: [The Latinized Greek name of a beautiful nymph.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flower
variegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wet
localities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypso
borealis is the only orchid which reaches 68º N.

CALYPTRA
Ca*lyp"tra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form and
position, covering each of the small flaskike capsules which contain
the spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.

CALYPTRIFORM
Ca*lyp"tri*form, a. Etym: [Calyptra + -form.]

Defn: Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.

CALYX
Ca"lyx, n.; pl. E. Calyxes, L. Calyces. Etym: [L. calyx, -ycis, fr.
Gr. Chalice Helmet.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The covering of a flower. See Flower.

Note: The calyx is usually green and foliaceous, but becomes delicate
and petaloid in such flowers as the anemone and the four-o'clock.
Each leaf of the calyx is called a sepal.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A cuplike division of the pelvis of the kidney, which surrounds
one or more of the renal papilæ.

CALZOONS
Cal*zoons", n. pl. Etym: [F. caleçons (cf. It. calzoni breeches), fr.
L. calceus shoe.]

Defn: Drawers. [Obs.]

CAM
Cam, n. Etym: [Dan. kam comb, ridge; or cf. W. Gael., and Ir., cam
bet. See 1st Come.]

1. (Med.)
(a) A turning or sliding piece which, by the shape of its periphery
or face, or a groove in its surface, imparts variable or intermittent
motion to, or receives such motion from, a rod, lever, or block
brought into sliding or rolling contact with it.
(b) A curved wedge, movable about an axis, used for forcing or
clamping two pieces together.
(c) A projecting part of a wheel or other moving piece so shaped as
to give alternate or variable motion to another piece against which
its acts.

Note: Cams are much used in machinery involving complicated, and
irregular movements, as in the sewing machine, pin machine, etc.

2. A ridge or mound of earth. [Prow. Eng.] Wright. Cam wheel (Mach.),
a wheel with one or more projections (cams) or depressions upon its
periphery or upon its face; one which is set or shaped eccentrically,
so that its revolutions impart a varied, reciprocating, or
intermittent motion.

CAM
Cam, a. Etym: [See Kam.]

Defn: Crooked. [Obs.]
CELL
Cell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Celled.]

Defn: To place or inclosed in a cell. "Celled under ground." [R.]
Warner.

CELLA
Cel"la, n. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as
distinguished from the open porticoes.

CELLAR
Cel"lar, n. Etym: [OE. celer, OF. celier, F. celier, fr. L. cellarium
a receptacle for food, pantry, fr. cella storeroom. See Cell.]

Defn: A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface
of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept.

CELLARAGE
Cel"lar*age, n.

1. The space or storerooms of a cellar; a cellar. Sir W. Scott.
You hear this fellow in the cellarage. Shak.

2. Chare for storage in a cellar.

CELLARER
Cel"lar*er, n. Etym: [LL. cellararius, equiv. to L. cellarius
steward: cf. F. cellérier. See Cellar.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who has
charge of procuring and keeping the provisions.

CELLARET
Cel`lar*et", n. Etym: [Dim of cellar.]

Defn: A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine or
liquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in a
sideboard, and usually lined with metal.

CELLARIST
Cel"lar*ist, n.

Defn: Same as Cellarer.

CELLED
Celled, a.

Defn: Containing a cell or cells.

CELLEPORE
Cel"le*pore, n. Etym: [L. cella cell + porus, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells,
belonging to the Bryozoa.

CELLIFEROUS
Cel*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cell + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing or producing cells.

CELLO
Cel"lo, n.; pl. E. Cellos (, It. Celli (.

Defn: A contraction for Violoncello.

CELLULAR
Cel"lu*lar, a. Etym: [L. cellula a little cell: cf. F. cellulaire.
See Cellule.]

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cell
or cells. Cellular plants, Cellular cryptogams (Bot.), those
flowerless plants which have no ducts or fiber in their tissue, as
mosses, fungi, lichens, and algæ.
 -- Cellular theory, or Cell theory (Biol.), a theory, according to
which the essential element of every tissue, either vegetable or
animal, is a cell; the whole series of cells having been formed from
the development of the germ cell and by differentiation converted
into tissues and organs which, both in plants ans animals, are to be
considered as a mass of minute cells communicating with each other.
 -- Cellular tissue. (a) (Anat.) See conjunctive tissue under
Conjunctive. (b) (Bot.) Tissue composed entirely of parenchyma, and
having no woody fiber or ducts. cellular telephone, a portable radio-
telephone transmitting and receiving the radio-telephonic signals
from one of a group of transmitter-receiver stations so arranged that
they provide adequate signal contact for such telephones over a
certain geographical area. The area within which one transmitter may
service such portable telephones is called its "cell.

CELLULATED
Cel"lu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Cellular. Caldwell.

CELLULE
Cel"lule, n. Etym: [L. cellula a small apartment, dim. of cella: cf.
F. cellule. See Cell.]

Defn: A small cell.

CELLULIFEROUS
Cel`lu*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. cellula + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing or producing little cells.

CELLULITIS
Cel`lu*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cellula + -itis.]

Defn: An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. of
that lying immediately beneath the skin.

CELLULOID
Cel"lu*loid`, n. Etym: [Cellulose + -oid.]

Defn: A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, and
when pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variously
colored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite, etc. It
is used in the manufacture of jewelry and many small articles, as
combs, brushes, collars, and cuffs; -- originaly called xylonite.

CELLULOSE
Cel"lu*lose`, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, cells.

CELLULOSE
Cel"lu*lose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The substance which constitutes the essential part of the solid
framework of plants, of ordinary wood, linen, paper, etc. It is also
found to a slight extent in certain animals, as the tunicates. It is
a carbohydrate, (C6H10O5)n, isomeric with starch, and is convertible
into starches and sugars by the action of heat and acids. When pure,
it is a white amorphous mass. See Starch, Granulose, Lignin.
Unsized, well bleached linen paper is merely pure cellulose. Goodale.
Starch cellulose, the delicate framework which remains when the
soluble part (granulose) of starch is removed by saliva or pepsin.
Goodale.

CELOTOMY
Ce*lot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure in
strangulated hernia. [Frequently written kelotomy.]

CELSITURE
Cel"si*ture, n. Etym: [L. celstudo, from celsus high: cf. celsitude.]

Defn: Height; altitude. [Obs.]

CELSIUS
Cel"si*us, n.

Defn: The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from Anders
Celsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it. It is the same as the
centigrade thermometer or scale.

CELT
Celt, n. Etym: [L. Celtae, Gr. Celtiad one that dwells in a covert,
an inhabitant of the wood, a Celt, fr. celt covert, shelter, celu to
hide.]

Defn: One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a
great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at
the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and
the northern shores of France. [Written also Kelt. The letter C was
pronounced hard in Celtic languages.]

CELT
Celt, n. Etym: [LL. celts a chisel.] (Archæol.)

Defn: A weapon or implement of stone or metal, found in the tumuli,
or barrows, of the early Celtic nations.

CELTIBERIAN
Celt`i*be"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Celtiber, Celtibericus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spain
lying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants the
Celtiberi (Celts of the river Iberus).
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Celtiberia.

CELTIC
Celt"ic, a. Etym: [L. Celticus, Gr. Celt.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes,
literature, tongue. [Written also Keltic.]

CELTIC
Celt"ic, n.

Defn: The language of the Celts.

Note: The remains of the old Celtic language are found in the Gaelic,
the Erse or Irish the Manx, and the Welsh and its cognate dialects
Cornish and Bas Breton.

CELTICISM
Celt"i*cism, n.

Defn: A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language. Warton.

CELTICIZE
Celt"i*cize`, v. t.

Defn: To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.

CELTIUM
Cel"ti*um, n. [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed new element of the rare-earth group, accompanying
lutecium and scandium in the gadolinite earths. Symbol, Ct (no
period).

CEMBALO
Cem"ba*lo, n. Etym: [It. See Cymbal.]

Defn: An old mname for the harpsichord.

CEMENT
Ce*ment", n. Etym: [OF. cement, ciment, F. ciment, fr. L. caementum a
rough, unhewn stone, pieces or chips of marble, from which mortar was
made, contr. fr. caedimentum, fr. caedere to cut, prob. akin to
scindere to cleave, and to E. shed, v. t.]

1. Any substance used for making bodies adhere to each other, as
mortar, glue, etc.

2. A kind of calcined limestone, or a calcined mixture of clay and
lime, for making mortar which will harden under water.

3. The powder used in cementation. See Cementation, n.., 2.

4. Bond of union; that which unites firmly, as persons in friendship,
or men in society. "The cement of our love."

5. (Anat.)

Defn: The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; --
called also cementum. Hydraulic cement. See under Hydraulic.

CEMENT
Ce*ment", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cemented; p. pr. & vb. n. Cementing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. cimenter. See Cement, n.]

1. To unite or cause to adhere by means of a cement. Bp. Burnet.

2. To unite firmly or closely. Shak.

3. To overlay or coat with cement; as, to cement a cellar bottom.

CEMENT
Ce*ment", v. i.

Defn: To become cemented or firmly united; to cohere. S. Sharp.

CEMENTAL
Ce*ment"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes.
R. Owen.

CEMENTATION
Cem`en*ta"tion, n.

1. The act or process of cementing.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with the
powder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree not
sufficient to cause fusion, the physical properties of the body being
changed by chemical combination with powder; thus iron becomes steel
by cementation with charcoal, and green glass becomes porcelain by
cementation with sand.

CEMENTATORY
Ce*ment"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Having the quality of cementating or uniting firmly.

CEMENTER
Ce*ment"er, n.

Defn: A person or thing that cements.

CEMENTITIOUS
Cem`en*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. caementitius pertaining to quarry
stones. See Cement, n. ]

Defn: Of the nature of cement. [R.] Forsyth.

CEMENT STEEL
Ce*ment" steel.

Defn: Steel produced by cementation; blister steel.

CEMETERIAL
Cem`e*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cemetery. "Cemeterial cells." [R.] Sir T.
Browne.

CEMETERY
Cem"e*ter*y, n.; pl. Cemeteries (. Etym: [L. cemeterium, Gr.

Defn: A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a
graveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.

CENANTHY
Ce*nan"thy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens and
pistil) in a flower.

CENATION
Ce*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cenatio.]

Defn: Meal-taking; dining or supping. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CENATORY
Cen"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. cenatorius, fr. cenare to dine, sup, fr.
cena, coena, dinner, supper.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to dinner or supper. [R.]
The Romans washed, were anointed, and wore a cenatory garment. Sir T.
Browne.

CENOBITE
Cen"o*bite, n. Etym: [L. coenobita, fr. Gr. cénobite.]

Defn: One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or a
community, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives in
solitude. Gibbon.

CENOBITIC; CENOBITICAL
Cen`o*bit"ic, Cen`o*bit"ic*al a. Etym: [Cf. F. cénobitique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cenobite.

CENOBITISM
Cen"o*bi*tism, n.

Defn: The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of a
cenobite. Milman.

CENOGAMY
Ce*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The state of a communty which permits promiseuous sexual
intercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicing
communism.

CENOTAPH
Cen"o*taph, n. Etym: [Gr. cénotaphe.]

Defn: An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who is
buried elsewhere. Dryden.
A cenotaph in Westminster Abbey. Macaulay.

CENOTAPHY
Cen"o*taph`y, n.

Defn: A cenotaph. [R.]
Lord Cobham honored him with a cenotaphy. Macaulay.

CENOZOIC
Ce`no*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Belonging to the most recent division of geological time,
including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age
of man. [Written also cænozoic, cainozoic, kainozoic.] See Geology.

Note: This word is used by many authors as synonymous with Tertiary,
the Quaternary Age not being included.

CENSE
Cense, n. Etym: [OF. cense, F. cens, L. census. See Census.]

1. A census; -- also, a public rate or tax. [Obs.] Howell. Bacon.

2. Condition; rank. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CENSE
Cense, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Censed; p. pr. & vb. n. Censing.] Etym:
[Abbrev. from incense.]

Defn: To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices.
The Salii sing and cense his altars round. Dryden.

CENSE
Cense, v. i.

Defn: To burn or scatter incense.

CENSER
Cen"ser, n. Etym: [For incenser, fr. OF. encensier, F. encensoir, fr.
LL. incensarium, incensorium, fr. L. incensum incense. See Incense,
and cf. Incensory.]

Defn: A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.

Note: The ecclesiastical censer is usually cup-shaped, has a cover
pierced with holes, and is hung by chains. The censer bearer swings
it to quicken the combustion.
Her thoughts are like the fume of frankincense Which from a golden
censer forth doth rise. Spenser.

CENSOR
Cen"sor, n. Etym: [L. censor, fr. censere to value, tax.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the
number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of
inspector of morals and conduct.

2. One who is empowered to examine manuscripts before they are
committed to the press, and to forbid their publication if they
contain anything obnoxious; -- an official in some European
countries.

3. One given to fault-finding; a censurer.
Nor can the most circumspect attention, or steady rectitude, escape
blame from censors who have no inclination to approve. Rambler.

4. A critic; a reviewer.
Received with caution by the censors of the press. W. Irving.

CENSORIAL
Cen*so"ri*al, a.

1. Belonging to a censor, or to the correction of public morals.
Junius.

2. Full of censure; censorious.
The censorial declamation of Juvenal. T. Warton.

CENSORIAN
Cen*so"ri*an, a.

Defn: Censorial. [R.] Bacon.

CENSORIOUS
Cen*so"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. censorius pertaining to the censor. See
Censor.]

1. Addicted to censure; apt to blame or condemn; severe in making
remarks on others, or on their writings or manners.
A dogmatical spirit inclines a man to be consorious of his neighbors.
Watts.

2. Implying or expressing censure; as, censorious remarks.

Syn.
 -- Fault-finding; carping; caviling; captious; severe; condemnatory;
hypercritical.
 -- Cen*so"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Cen*so"ri*ous*ness, n.

CENSORSHIP
Cen"sor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship.
Holland.
The press was not indeed at that moment under a general censorship.
Macaulay.

CENSUAL
Cen"su*al, a. Etym: [L. censualis, fr. census.]

Defn: Relating to, or containing, a census.
He caused the whole realm to be described in a censual roll. Sir R.
Baker.

CENSURABLE
Cen"sur*a*ble, a.

Defn: Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, a
censurable person, or censurable conduct.
 -- Cen"sur*a*bleness, n.
 -- Cen"sur*a*bly, adv.

CENSURE
Cen"sure, n. Etym: [L. censura fr. censere: cf. F. censure. Cf.
Censor.]

1. Judgment either favorable or unfavorable; opinion. [Obs.]
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment. Shak.

2. The act of blaming or finding fault with and condemning as wrong;
reprehension; blame.
Both the censure and the praise were merited. Macaulay.

3. Judicial or ecclesiastical sentence or reprimand; condemnatory
judgment.
Excommunication or other censure of the church. Bp. Burnet.

Syn.
 -- Blame; reproof; condemnation; reprobation; disapproval;
disapprobation; reprehension; animadversion; reprimand; reflection;
dispraise; abuse.

CENSURE
Cen"sure, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Censured; p. pr. & vb. n. Censuring.]
Etym: [Cf. F. ensurer.]

1. To form or express a judgment in regard to; to estimate; to judge.
[Obs.] "Should I say more, you might well censure me a flatterer."
Beau. & Fl.

2. To find fault with and condemn as wrong; to blame; to express
disapprobation of.
I may be censured that nature thus gives way to loyalty. Shak.

3. To condemn or reprimand by a judicial or ecclesiastical sentence.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- To blame; reprove; rebuke; condemn; reprehend; reprimand.

CENSURE
Cen"sure, v. i.

Defn: To judge. [Obs.] Shak.

CENSURER
Cen"sur*er, n.

Defn: One who censures. Sha.

CENSUS
Cen"sus, n. Etym: [L. census, fr. censere. See Censor.]

1. (Bot. Antiq.)

Defn: A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for
the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five
years.

2. An official registration of the number of the people, the value of
their estates, and other general statistics of a country.

Note: A general census of the United States was first taken in 1790,
and one has been taken at the end of every ten years since.

CENT
Cent, n. Etym: [F. cent hundred, L. centum. See Hundred.]

1. A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a
hundred.

2. A United States coin, the hundredth part of a dollar, formerly
made of copper, now of copper, tin, and zinc.

3. An old game at cards, supposed to be like piquet; -- so called
because 100 points won the game. Nares.

CENTAGE
Cent"age, n.

Defn: Rate by the hundred; percentage.

CENTAL
Cen"tal, n. Etym: [L. centum a hundred.]

Defn: A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many
parts of the United States a Hundredweight.

CENTAL
Cen"tal, n.

Defn: Relating to a hundred. Cental system, the method of buying and
selling by the cental, or hundredweight.

CENTARE
Cen"tare`, n. Etym: [F. centiare; centi- (L. centum) + -are.]

Defn: A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square
meter, or about 1

CENTAUR
Cen"taur, n. Etym: [L. centaurus, Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation in the southern heavens between Hydra and the
Southern Cross.

CENTAUREA
Cen`tau*re"a, n. Etym: [NL. See Centaury.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles and
including the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and the
star thistle (C. Calcitrapa).

CENTAUROMACHY
Cen`tau*rom"a*chy, n. [Gr. ;  centaur +  battle.] (Ancient Art)

Defn: A fight in which centaurs take part, -- a common theme for
relief sculpture, as in the Parthenon metopes.

CENTAURY
Cen"tau*ry, n. Etym: [L. centaureum and centauria, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usually
given to the Erytheræa Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata of
Europe, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even to
the unrelated Centaurea.

CENTENARIAN
Cen`te*na"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to a hundred years.
 -- n.

Defn: A person a hundred years old.

CENTENARY
Cen"te*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. centenarius, fr. centum a hundred.]

1. Relating to, or consisting of, a hundred.

2. Occurring once in every hundred years; centennial. "Centenary
solemnities." Fuller.

CENTENARY
Cen"te*na*ry, n.; pl. Centenaries (.

1. The aggregate of a hundred single things; specifically, a century.
"Every centenary of years." Hakewill.

2. A commemoration or celebration of an event which occurred a hudred
years before.

CENTENNIAL
Cen*ten"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. centum a hundred + annus year.]

1. Relating to, or associated with, the commemoration of an event
that happened a hundred years before; as, a centennial ode.

2. Happening once in a hundred years; as, centennial jubilee; a
centennial celebration.

3. Lasting or aged a hundred years.
Thet opened through long lines Of sacred ilex and centennial pines.
Longfellow.

CENTENNIAL
Cen*ten"ni*al, n.

Defn: The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; a
centenary. [U. S.]

CENTENNIALLY
Cen*ten"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Once in a hundred years.

CENTENNIAL STATE
Centennial State.

Defn: Colorado; -- a nickname alluding to the fact that it was
admitted to the Union in the centennial year, 1876.

CENTER
Cen"ter, n. Etym: [F. centre, fr. L. centrum, fr. round which a
circle is described, fr.

1. A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or
body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle
point or place.

2. The middle or central portion of anything.

3. A principal or important point of concentration; the nucleus
around which things are gathered or to which they tend; an object of
attention, action, or force; as, a center of attaction.

4. The earth. [Obs.] Shak.

5. Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who support
the existing government. They sit in the middle of the legislative
chamber, opposite the presiding officer, between the conservatives or
monarchists, who sit on the right of the speaker, and the radicals or
advanced republicans who occupy the seats on his left, See Right, and
Left.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or
arch are supported in position util the work becomes self-supporting.

7. (Mech.)
(a) One of the two conical steel pins, in a lathe, etc., upon which
the work is held, and about which it revolves.
(b) A conical recess, or indentation, in the end of a shaft or other
work, to receive the point of a center, on which the work can turn,
as in a lathe.

Note: In a lathe the live center is in the spindle of the head stock;
the dead center is on the tail stock. Planer centers are stocks
carrying centers, when the object to be planed must be turned on its
axis. Center of an army, the body or troops ossupying the place in
the line between the wings.
 -- Center of a curve or surface (Geom.) (a) A point such that every
line drawn through the point and terminated by the curve or surface
is bisected at the point. (b) The fixed point of reference in polar
coördinates. See Coördinates.
 -- Center of curvature of a curve (Geom.), the center of that circle
which has at any given point of the curve closer contact with the
curve than has any other circle whatever. See Circle.
 -- Center of a fleet, the division or column between the van and
rear, or between the weather division and the lee.
 -- Center of gravity (Mech.), that point of a body about which all
its parts can be balanced, or which being supported, the whole body
will remain at rest, though acted upon by gravity.
 -- Center of gyration (Mech.), that point in a rotating body at
which the whole mass might be concentrated (theoretically) without
altering the resistance of the intertia of the body to angular
acceleration or retardaton.
 -- Center of inertia (Mech.), the center of gravity of a body or
system of bodies.
 -- Center of motion, the point which remains at rest, while all the
other parts of a body move round it.
 -- Center of oscillation, the point at which, if the whole matter of
a suspended body were collected, the time of oscillation would be the
same as it is in the actual form and state of the body.
 -- Center of percussion, that point in a body moving about a fixed
axis at which it may strike an obstacle without communicating a shock
to the axis.
 -- Center of pressure (Hydros.), that point in a surface pressed by
a fluid, at which, if a force equal to the whole pressure and in the
same line be applied in a contrary direction, it will balance or
counteract the whole pressure of the fluid.

CENTER; CENTRE
Cen"ter, Cen"tre v. i. [imp. & p. p. Centered or Centred (; p. pr. &
vb. n. Centering or Centring.]

1. To be placed in a center; to be central.

2. To be collected to a point; to be concentrated; to rest on, or
gather about, as a center.
Where there is no visible truth wherein to center, error is as wide
as men's fancies. Dr. H. More.
Our hopes must center in ourselves alone. Dryden.

CENTER; CENTRE
Cen"ter , Cen"tre, v. t.

1. To place or fix in the center or on a central point. Milton.

2. To collect to a point; to concentrate.
Thy joys are centered all in me alome. Prior.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: To form a recess or indentation for the reception of a center.

CENTERBIT; CENTREBIT
Cen"ter*bit`, Cen"tre*bit`, n.

Defn: An instrument turning on a center, for boring holes. See Bit,
n., 3.

CENTERBOARD; CENTREBOARD
Cen"ter*board`, Cen"tre*board,, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A movable or sliding keel formed of a broad board or slab of
wood or metal which may be raised into a water-tight case amidships,
when in shallow water, or may be lowered to increase the area of
lateral resistance and prevent leeway when the vessel is beating to
windward. It is used in vessels of all sizes along the coast of the
United States

CENTERFIRE CARTRIDGE
Cen"ter*fire` car"tridge.

Defn: See under Cartridge.

CENTERING
Cen"ter*ing, n. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Center, n., 6. [Written also centring.]

CENTERPIECE; CENTREPIECE
Cen"ter*piece`, Cen"tre*piece`, n.

Defn: An ornament to be placed in the center, as of a table, ceiling,
atc.; a central article or figure.

CENTESIMAL
Cen*tes"i*mal, a. Etym: [L. centesimus the hundredth, fr. centum a
hundred: cf. F. centésimal.]

Defn: Hundredth.
 -- n.

Defn: A hundredth part.
The neglect of a few centesimals. Arbuthnot.

CENTESIMATION
Cen*tes`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. centesimore to take out or select
every hudredth, fr. centesimus hundredth.] (Mil.)

Defn: The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in every
hundred, as in cases of mutiny.

CENTESIMO
Cen*tes"i*mo, n.; pl. -mi. Etym: [It. & Sp.]

Defn: A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime.

CENTESM
Cen"tesm, n. Etym: [L. centesima.]

Defn: Hundredth.

CENTIARE
Cen"ti*are`, n. Etym: [F. See Centare.]

Defn: See centare.

CENTICIPITOUS
Cen`ti*cip"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. centiceps, -cipitis; centum a hunder
+ caput head.]

Defn: Hundred-headed.

CENTIFIDOUS
Cen*tif"i*dous, a. Etym: [L. centifidus; centum + findere to split.]

Defn: Divided into a hundred parts.

CENTIFOLIOUS
Cen`ti*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. centifolius; centum + folium leaf.]

Defn: Having a hundred leaves.

CENTIGRADE
Cen"ti*grade, a. Etym: [L. centum a hundred + gradus degree: cf. F.
centigrade.]

Defn: Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred
divisions or equal parts. Spesifically: of or pertaining the
centigrade thermometer; as, 10° centigrade (or 10° C.). Centigrade
thermometer, a thermometer having the zero or 0 at the point
indicating the freezing state of water, and the distance between that
and the point indicating the boiling state of water divided into one
hundred degrees. It is called also the Celsius thermometer, from
Anders Celsius, the originator of this scale.

CENTIGRAM; CENTIGRAMME
Cen"ti*gram, Cen"ti*gramme, n. Etym: [F. centigramme; centi- (L.
centum) + gramme. See Gram.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a gram; a weight equal to .15432 of a
grain. See Gram.

CENTILITER; CENTILITRE
Cen"ti*li`ter, Cen"ti*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. centilitre; centi (L.
centum) + litre. See Liter.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a liter; a measure of volume or capacity
equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of a cubic inch, or
one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce.

CENTILOQUY
Cen*til"o*quy, n. Etym: [L. centum hundred + logui to speak.]

Defn: A work divided into a hundred parts. [R.] Burton.

CENTIME
Cen`time", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. centesimus. See Centesimal.] (F.
Coinage)

Defn: The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin and
money of account.

CENTIMETER; CENTIMETRE
Cen"ti*me`ter, Cen"ti*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. centimètre; centi- (L.
centum) + mètre. See Meter.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a meter; a measure of length equal to
rather more than thirty-nine hundredths (0.3937) of an inch. See
Meter.

CENTINEL
Cen"ti*nel, n.

Defn: Sentinel. [Obs.] Sackville.

CENTINODY
Cen*tin"o*dy, n. Etym: [L. centum a hundred + nodus knot: cf. F.
centinode.] (Bot.)

Defn: A weed with a sterm of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum);
also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass.

CENTIPED
Cen"ti*ped, n. Etym: [L. centipeda; centum a hundred + pes, pedis,
foot: cf. F. centipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomous
kinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they are
many-jointed, and have a great number of feet. [Written also
centipede (

CENTISTERE
Cen"ti*stere, n. Etym: [F. centistère; centi- (l. centum) + stère.]

Defn: The hundredth part of a stere, equal to .353 cubic feet.

CENTNER
Cent"ner, n. Etym: [Cf. G. centner a hundred-weight, fr. L.
centenarius of a hundred, fr. centum a hundred.]

1. (Metal. & Assaying)

Defn: A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then into
smaller parts.

Note: The metallurgists use a weight divided into a hundred equal
parts, each one pound; the whole they call a centner: the pound is
divided into thirty-two parts, or half ounces; the half ounce into
two quarters; and each of these into two drams. But the assayers use
different weights. With them a centner is one dram, to which the
other parts are proportioned.

2. The commercial hundredweight in several of the continental
countries, varying in different places from 100 to about 112 pounds.

CENTO
Cen"to, n.; pl. Centos. Etym: [L. cento a garment of several pieces
sewed together, patchwork, a poem made up of various verses of
another poem.]

Defn: A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from
different authors disposed in a new order.

CENTONISM
Cen"to*nism, n.

Defn: The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing a
cento or centos.

CENTRAL
Cen"tral, a. Etym: [L. centralis, fr. centrum: cf. F. central. See
Center.]

Defn: Relating to the center; situated in or near the center or
middle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near the
center; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points.
Central force (Math.), a force acting upon a body towards or away
from a fixed or movable center.
 -- Center sun (Astron.), a name given to a hypothetical body about
which Mädler supposed the solar system together with all the stars in
the Milky Way, to be revolving. A point near Alcyone in the Pleiades
was supposed to possess characteristics of the position of such a
body.

CENTRAL; CENTRALE
Cen"tral, Cen*tra"le, n. Etym: [NL. centrale, fr. L. centralis.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The central, or one of the central, bones of the carpus or or
tarsus. In the tarsus of man it is represented by the navicular.

CENTRALISM
Cen"tral*ism, n.

1. The state or condition of being central; the combination of
several parts into one whole; centralization.

2. The system by which power is centralized, as in a government.

CENTRALITY
Cen*tral"i*ty, n.; pl. Centralities (.

Defn: The state of being central; tendency towards a center.
Meantime there is a great centrality, a centripetence equal to the
centrifugence. R. W. Emerson.

CENTRALIZATION
Cen`tral*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. centralisation.]

Defn: The act or process of centralizing, or the state of being
centralized; the act or process of combining or reducing several
parts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the general
government; the centralization of commerce in a city.

CENTRALIZE
Cen"tral*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Centralized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Centralizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. centraliser.]

Defn: To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about a
center; to bring into one system, or under one control.
[To] centralize the power of government. Bancroft.

CENTRALLY
Cen"tral*ly, adv.

Defn: In a central manner or situation.

CENTRE
Cen"tre, n. & v.

Defn: See Center.

CENTRIC; CENTRICAL
Cen"tric, Cen"tric*al, a.

Defn: Placed in the center or middle; central.
At York or some other centrical place. Sir W. Scott.
-- Cen"tric*al*ly, adv.
 -- Cen"tric*al*ness, n.

CENTRICITY
Cen*tric"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being centric; centricalness.

CENTRIFUGAL
Cen*trif"u*gal, a. Etym: [L. centrum center + fugere to flee.]

1. Tending, or causing, to recede from the center.

2. (Bot.)
(a) Expanding first at the summit, and later at the base, as a flower
cluster.
(b) Having the radicle turned toward the sides of the fruit, as some
embryos. Centrifugal force (Mech.), a force whose direction is from a
center.

Note: When a body moves in a circle with uniform velocity, a force
must act on the body to keep it in the circle without change of
velocity. The direction of this force is towards the center of the
circle. If this force is applied by means of a string to the body,
the string will be in a state of tension. To a person holding the
other end of the string, this tension will appear to be directed
toward the body as if the body had a tendency to move away from the
center of the circle which it is describing. Hence this latter force
is often called centrifugal force. The force which really acts on the
body being directed towards the center of the circle is called
centripetal force, and in some popular treatises the centripetal and
centrifugal forces are described as opposing and balancing each
other. But they are merely the different aspects of the same stress.
Clerk Maxwell. Centrifugal impression (Physiol.), an impression
(motor) sent from a nerve center outwards to a muscle or muscles by
which motion is produced.
 -- Centrifugal machine, A machine for expelling water or other
fluids from moist substances, or for separating liquids of different
densities by centrifugal action; a whirling table.
 -- Centrifugal pump, a machine in which water or other fluid is
lifted and discharged through a pipe by the energy imparted by a
wheel or blades revolving in a fixed case. Some of the largest and
most powerful pumps are of this kind.

CENTRIFUGAL
Cen*trif"u*gal, n.

Defn: A centrifugal machine.

CENTRIFUGAL FILTER
Cen*trif"u*gal fil"ter.

Defn: A filter, as for sugar, in which a cylinder with a porous or
foraminous periphery is rapidly rotated so as to drive off liquid by
centrifugal action.

CENTRIFUGENCE
Cen*trif"u*gence, n.

Defn: The property or quality of being centrifugal. R. W. Emerson.

CENTRING
Cen"tring, n.

Defn: See Centring.

CENTRIPETAL
Cen*trip"e*tal, a. Etym: [L. centrum center + peter to more toward.]

1. Tending, or causing, to approach the center.

2. (Bot.) (a) Expanding first at the base of the inflorescence, and
proceeding in order towards the summit. (b) Having the radicle turned
toward the axis of the fruit, as some embryos.

3. Progressing by changes from the exterior of a thing toward its
center; as, the centripetal calcification of a bone. R. Owen.
Centripetal force (Mech.), a force whose direction is towards a
center, as in case of a planet revolving round the sun, the center of
the system, See Centrifugal force, under Centrifugal.
 -- Centripetal impression (Physiol.), an impression (sensory)
transmitted by an afferent nerve from the exterior of the body
inwards, to the central organ.

CENTRIPETENCE
Cen*trip"e*tence, n.

Defn: Centripetency.

CENTRIPETENCY
Cen*trip"e*ten*cy, n.

Defn: Tendency toward the center.

CENTRISCOID
Cen*tris"coid, a. Etym: [NL. Centriscus (r. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which the
bellows fish is an example.

CENTROBARIC
Cen`tro*bar"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (

Defn: Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of finding
it. Centrobaric method (Math.), a process invented for the purpose of
measuring the area or the volume generated by the rotation of a line
or surface about a fixed axis, depending upon the principle that
every figure formed by the revolution of a line or surface about such
an axis has for measure the product of the line or surface by the
length of the path of its center of gravity; -- sometimes called
theorem of Pappus, also, incorrectly, Guldinus's properties. See
Barycentric calculus, under Calculus.

CENTRODE
Cen"trode, n. (Kinematics)

Defn: In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curves
which are the loci of the instantaneous center.

CENTROID
Cen"troid, n. Etym: [L. centrum + -oid.]

Defn: The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system of
bodies.

CENTROLECITHAL
Cen`tro*lec"i*thal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum,
segmentation being either regular or unequal. Balfour.

CENTROLINEAD
Cen`tro*lin"e*ad, n.

Defn: An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or lines
converging to a center.

CENTROLINEAL
Cen`tro*lin"e*al, a. Etym: [L. centrum + linea line.]

Defn: Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meet
in a point or center.

CENTROSOME
Cen"tro*some`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell. It is
regarded as the dynamic element by means of which the machinery of
cell division is organized.

CENTROSPHERE
Cen"tro*sphere, n. [Gr.  centre + sphere.]

1.  (Geol.)

Defn: The nucleus or central part of the earth, forming most of its
mass; -- disting. from lithosphere, hydrosphere, etc.

2.  (Biol.) The central mass of an aster from which the rays extend
and within which the centrosome lies when present; the attraction
sphere. The name has been used both as excluding and including the
centrosome, and also to designate a modified mass of protoplasm about
a centrosome whether aster rays are developed or not.

CENTROSTALTIC
Cen`tro*stal"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinal
center. Marshall Hall.

CENTRUM
Cen"trum, n.; pl. E. Centrums, L. Centra. Etym: [L., center.] (Anat.)

Defn: The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra.

CENTRY
Cen"try, n.

Defn: See Sentry. [Obs.] Gray.

CENTUMVIR
Cen*tum"vir, n.; pl. Centumviri. Etym: [L., fr. centum hundred + Vir
man.] (Rom. Hist.)

Defn: One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civil
suits. Under the empire the court was increased to 180, and met
usually in four sections.

CENTUMVIRAL
Cen*tum"vi*ral, a. Etym: [L. centumvitalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir.

CENTUMVIRATE
Cen*tum"vi*rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. centumvirat.]

Defn: The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri.

CENTUPLE
Cen"tu*ple, a. Etym: [L. centuplex; centum + plicare to fold; cf. F.
centuple.]

Defn: Hundredfold.

CENTUPLE
Cen"tu*ple, v. t.

Defn: To increase a hundredfold.

CENTUPLICATE
Cen*tu"pli*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Centuplicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Centuplicating.] Etym: [L. centuplicare. See Centuple, a.]

Defn: To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times. [R.] Howell.

CENTURIAL
Cen*tu"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. See Century.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon. [R.]

CENTURIATE
Cen*tu"ri*ate, a. Etym: [L. centuriatus, p. p. of centuriare to
divide (men) into centuries.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds. [R.]
Holland.

CENTURIATE
Cen*tu"ri*ate, v. t. Etym: [See century.]

Defn: To divide into hundreds. [Obs.]

CENTURIATOR; CENTURIST
Cen*tu"ri*a`tor, Cen"tu*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. centuriateur.]

Defn: An historian who distinguishes time by centuries, esp. one of
those who wrote the "Magdeburg Centuries." See under Century. [R.]

CENTURION
Cen*tu"ri*on, n. Etym: [L. centurio, fr. centuria; cf. F. centurion.
See Century.] (Rom. Hist.)

Defn: A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Roman
army; a captain of a century.
A centurion of the hand called the Italian band. Acts x. 1.

CENTURY
Cen"tu*ry, n.; pl. Centuries. Etym: [L. centuria (in senses 1 & 3),
fr. centum a hundred: cf. F. centurie. See Cent.]

1. A hundred; as, a century of sonnets; an aggregate of a hundred
things. [Archaic.]
And on it said a century of prayers. Shak.

2. A period of a hundred years; as, this event took place over two
centuries ago.

Note: Century, in the reckoning of time, although often used in a
general way of any series of hundred consecutive years (as, a century
of temperance work), usually signifies a division of the Christian
era, consisting of a period of one hundred years ending with the
hundredth year from which it is named; as, the first century (a. d.
1-100 inclusive); the seventh century (a.d. 601-700); the eighteenth
century (a.d. 1701-1800). With words or phrases connecting it with
some other system of chronology it is used of similar division of
those eras; as, the first century of Rome (A.U.C. 1-100).

3. (Rom. Antiq.)
(a) A division of the Roman people formed according to their
property, for the purpose of voting for civil officers.
(b) One of sixty companies into which a legion of the army was
divided. It was Commanded by a centurion. Century plant (Bot.), the
Agave Americana, formerly supposed to flower but once in a century; -
- hence the name. See Agave.
 -- The Magdeburg Centuries, an ecclesiastical history of the first
thirteen centuries, arranged in thirteen volumes, compiled in the
16th century by Protestant scholars at Magdeburg.

CEORL
Ceorl (keôrl or cherl), n. [AS. See Churl, n.] (O. Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A freeman of the lowest class; one not a thane or of the
servile classes; a churl.

CEPACEOUS
Ce*pa"ceous, a. [L. cepa, caepa, onion.]

Defn: Of the nature of an onion, as in odor; alliaceous.

CEPEVOROUS
Ce*pev"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. cepa an onion + varare to devour.]

Defn: Feeding upon onions. [R.] Sterling.

CEPHALAD
Ceph"a*lad, adv. Etym: [Gr. ad toward.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body;
opposed to caudad.

CEPHALALGIA; CEPHALALGY
Ceph`a*lal"gi*a, Ceph"a*lal`gy, n. Etym: [L. cephalalgia, Gr.
céphalalgie.] (Med.)

Defn: Pain in the head; headache.

CEPHALALGIC
Ceph`a*lal"gic, a. Etym: [L. cephalalgicus, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to, or affected with, headache.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for the headache.

CEPHALANTHIUM
Ceph`a*lan"thi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Anthodium.

CEPHALASPIS
Ceph`a*las"pis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstone
or Devonian formation. The head is large, and protected by a broad
shield-shaped helmet prolonged behind into two lateral points.

CEPHALATA
Ceph`a*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large division of Mollusca, including all except the
bivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed. See
Illustration in Appendix.

CEPHALATE
Ceph"a*late, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a head.

CEPHALIC
Ce*phal"ic, a. Etym: [L. cephalicus, Gr. céphalique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior.
Cephalic index (Anat.), the ratio of the breadth of the cranium to
the length, which is taken as the standard, and equal to 100; the
breadth index.
 -- Cephalic vein, a large vein running from the back of the head
alond the arm; -- so named because the ancients used to open it for
disorders of the head. Dunglison.

CEPHALIC
Ce*pha"lic, n.

Defn: A medicine for headache, or other disorder in the head.

CEPHALISM
Ceph"a*lism, n. [Gr.  head.] (Anthropol.)

Defn: Form or development of the skull; as, the races of man differ
greatly in cephalism.

CEPHALITIS
Ceph`a*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Same as Phrenitis.

CIRCUMSTANCE
Cir"cum*stance, v. t.

Defn: To place in a particular situation; to suppy relative
incidents.
The poet took the matters of fact as they came down to him and
circumstanced them, after his own manner. Addison.

CIRCUMSTANCED
Cir"cum*stanced, p. a.

1. Placed in a particular position or condition; situated.
The proposition is, that two bodies so circumstanced will balance
each other. Whewell.

2. Governed by events or circumstances. [Poetic & R.] "I must be
circumstanced." Shak.

CIRCUMSTANT
Cir"cum*stant, a. Etym: [L. circumstans. See Circumstance.]

Defn: Standing or placed around; surrounding. [R.] "Circumstant
bodies." Sir K. Digby.

CIRCUMSTANTIABLE
Cir`cum*stan"tia*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being circumstantiated. [Obs.] Jer Taylor.

CIRCUMSTANTIAL
Cir`cum*stan"tial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. circonstanciel.]

1. Consisting in, or pertaining to, circumstances or particular
incidents.
The usual character of human testimony is substantial truth under
circumstantial variety. Paley.

2. Incidental; relating to, but not essential.
We must therefore distinguish between the essentials in religious
worship . . . and what is merely circumstantial. Sharp.

3. Abounding with circumstances; detailing or exhibiting all the
circumstances; minute; particular.
Tedious and circumstantial recitals. Prior.
Circumstantial evidence (Law), evidence obtained from circumstances,
which necessarily or usually attend facts of a particular nature,
from which arises presumption. According to some authorities
circumstantial is distinguished from positive evidence in that the
latter is the testimony of eyewitnesses to a fact or the admission of
a party; but the prevalent opinion now is that all such testimony is
dependent on circumstances for its support. All testimony is more or
less circumstantial. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- See Minute.

CIRCUMSTANTIAL
Cir`cum*stan"tial, n.

Defn: Something incidental to the main subject, but of less
importance; opposed to an essential; -- generally in the plural; as,
the circumstantials of religion. Addison.

CIRCUMSTANTIALITY
Cir`cum*stan`ti*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial;
particularity or minuteness of detail. "I will endeavor to describe
with sufficient circumstantiality." De Quincey.

CIRCUMSTANTIALLY
Cir`cum*stan"tial*ly, adv.

1. In respect to circumstances; not essentially; accidentally.
Of the fancy and intellect, the powers are only circumstantially
different. Glanvill.

2. In every circumstance or particular; minutely.
To set down somewhat circumstantially, not only the events, but the
manner of my trials. Boyle.

CIRCUMSTANTIATE
Cir`cum*stan"ti*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumstantiated; p. pr. &
vb. n. Circumstantiating.] Etym: [See Circumstantiating (

1. To place in particular circumstances; to invest with particular
accidents or adjuncts. [R.]
If the act were otherwise circumstantiated, it might will that freely
which now it wills reluctantly. Bramhall.

2. To prove or confirm by circumstances; to entr into details
concerning.
Neither will time permint to circumstantiate these particulars, which
I have only touched in the general. State Trials (1661).

CIRCUMTERRANEOUS
Cir`cum*ter*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + L. terra earth.]

Defn: Being or dwelling around the earth. "Circumterraneous demouns."
H. Hallywell.

CIRCUMUNDULATE
Cir`cum*un"du*late, v. t. Etym: [Pref. circum- + undulate.]

Defn: To flow round, as waves. [R.]

CIRCUMVALLATE
Cir`cum*val"late, v. t. Etym: [L. circumvallatus, p. p. of
circumvallare to surround with a wall; circum + vallare to wall, fr.
vallum rampart.]

Defn: To surround with a rampart or wall. Johnson.

CIRCUMVALLATE
Cir`cum*val"late, a.

1. Surrounded with a wall; inclosed with a rampart.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Surrounded by a ridle or elevation; as, the circumvallate
papillæ, near the base of the tongue.

CIRCUMVALLATION
Cir`cum*val*la"tion, n. (Mil.)
(a) The act of surrounding with a wall or rampart.
(b) A line of field works made around a besieged place and the
besieging army, to protect the camp of the besiegers against the
attack of an enemy from without.

CIRCUMVECTION
Cir`cum*vec"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumvectio; circum + vehere to
carry.]

Defn: The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being so
carried.

CIRCUMVENT
Cir`cum*vent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumvented; p. pr. vb. n.
Circumventing.] Etym: [L. circumventis, p. p. of circumvenire, to
come around, encompass, decieve; circum + venire to come, akin to E.
come.]

Defn: To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; to
decieve; to delude; to get around.
I circumvented whom I could not gain. Dryden.

CIRCUMVENTION
Cir`cum*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumventio.]

Defn: The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud;
deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.
A school in which he learns sly circumvention. Cowper.

CIRCUMVENTIVE
Cir`cum*vent"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding.

CIRCUMVENTOR
Cir`cum*vent"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning.

CIRCUMVEST
Cir`cum*vest", v. t. Etym: [L. circumvestire; circum + vestire to
clothe.]

Defn: To cover round, as woth a garment; to invest. [Obs.]
Circumvested with much prejudice. Sir H. Wotton.

CIRCUMVOLANT
Cir*cum"vo*lant, a. Etym: [L. circumvolans, p. pr. See
Circumvolation.]

Defn: Flying around.
The circumvolant troubles of humanity. G. Macdonald.

CIRCUMVOLATION
Cir`cum*vo*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. circumvolate. -volatum, to fly
around; circum + volare to fly.]

Defn: The act of flying round. [R.]

CIRCUMVOLUTION
Cir`cum*vo*lu"tion, n. Etym: [See Circumvolve.]

1. The act of rolling round; the state of being rolled.

2. A thing rolled round another. Arbuthnot.

3. A roundabout procedure; a circumlocution.
He had neither time nor temper for sentimental circumvolutions.
Beaconsfield.

CIRCUMVOLVE
Cir`cum*volve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circumvolved; p. pr. vb. n.
Circumvolving.] Etym: [L. circumvolvere, -volutum; circum + volvere
to roll.]

Defn: To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circular
motion. Herrick.

CIRCUMVOLVE
Cir`cum*volve", v. i.

Defn: To roll round; to revolve.

CIRCUS
Cir"cus, n.; pl. Circuses. Etym: [L. circus circle, ring, circus (in
sense 1). See Circle, and cf. Cirque.]

1. (Roman Antiq.)

Defn: A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of
wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and divided
lengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track or
course was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and public
shows.

Note: The Circus Maximus at Rome could contain more than 100,000
spectators. Harpers' Latin Dict.

2. A circular inclosure for the exhibition of feats of horsemanship,
acrobatic displays, etc. Also, the company of performers, with their
equipage.

3. Circuit; space; inclosure. [R.]
The narrow circus of my dungeon wall. Byron.

CIRL BUNTING
Cirl" bun`ting. Etym: [Cf. It. cirlo.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus).

CIRQUE
Cirque, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. circus.]

1. A circle; a circus; a circular erection or arrangement of objects.
A dismal cirque Of Druid stones upon a forlorn moor. Keats.

2. A kind of circular valley in the side of a mountain, walled around
by precipices of great height.

CIRRATE
Cir"rate, a. Etym: [L. cirratus having ringlets, fr. cirrus a curl.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ.

CIRRHIFEROUS
Cir*rhif"er*ous, a.

Defn: See Cirriferous.

CIRRHOSE
Cir"rhose, a.

Defn: Same as Cirrose.

CIRRHOSIS
Cir*rho"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. cirrhose. So called from the
yellowish appearance which the diseased liver often presents when
cut.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller in
size and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimes
applied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in the
fibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ.

CIRRHOTIC
Cir*rhot"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as,
cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.

CIRRHOUS
Cir"rhous, a.

Defn: See Cirrose.

CIRRHUS
Cir"rhus, n.

Defn: Same as Cirrus.

CIRRI
Cir"ri, n. pl.

Defn: See Cirrus.

CIRRIFEROUS
Cir*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cirrus + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.

CIRRIFORM
Cir"ri*form, a. Etym: [Cirrus + -form.] (Biol.)

Defn: Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of both
animals and plants.

CIRRIGEROUS
Cir*rig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cirrus + -gerous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlike
appendages.

CIRRIGRADE
Cir"ri*grade, a. Etym: [Cirrus + L. gradi to walk.] (Biol.)

Defn: Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages.

CIRRIPED
Cir"ri*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cirripedia.

CIRRIPEDIA
Cir`ri*pe"di*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cirrus curl + pes, pedis,
foot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Crustacea including the barnacles. When adult, they
have a calcareous shell composed of several pieces. From the opening
of the shell the animal throws out a group of curved legs, looking
like a delicate curl, whence the name of the group. See Anatifa.

CIRROBRANCHIATA
Cir`ro*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. E. cirrus + L. branchiae
gills.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendages
near the mouth; the Scaphopoda.

CIRRO-CUMULUS
Cir`ro-cu"mu*lus, n. Etym: [Cirrus + cumulus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: See under Cloud.

CIRROSE
Cir"rose, a. Etym: [See Cirrus.] (Bot.)
(a) Bearing a tendril or tendrils; as, a cirrose leaf.
(b) Resembling a tendril or cirrus. [Spelt also cirrhose.]

CIRROSTOMI
Cir`ros"to*mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. E. cirrus + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirri
around the mouth; the Leptocardia. See Amphioxus.

CIRRO-STRATUS
Cir`ro-stra"tus, n. Etym: [Cirrus + stratus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: See under Cloud.

CIRROUS
Cir"rous, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Cirrose.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Tufted; -- said of certain feathers of birds.

CIRRUS
Cir"rus, n.; pl. Cirri. Etym: [L., lock, curl, ringlet.] [Also
written cirrhus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A tendril or clasper.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of
the parapodia of Annelida. Those near the head of annelids are
Tentacular cirri; those of the last segment are caudal cirri.
(b) The jointed, leglike organs of Cirripedia. See Annelida, and
Polychæta.

Note: In some of the inferior animals the cirri aid in locomotion; in
others they are used in feeding; in the Annelida they are mostly
organs of touch. Some cirri are branchial in function.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The external male organ of trematodes and some other worms, and
of certain Mollusca.

4. (Meteor.)

Defn: See under Cloud.

CIRSOCELE
Cir"so*cele, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.

CIRSOID
Cir"soid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Varicose. Cirsoid aneurism, a disease of an artery in which it
becomes dilated and elongated, like a varicose vein.

CIRSOTOMY
Cir*sot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: Any operation for the removal of varices by incision.
Dunglison.

CIS-
Cis-.

Defn: A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in English
words, and signifying on this side.

CISALPINE
Cis*al"pine, a. Etym: [L. Cisalpinus; cis on this side + Alpinus
Alpine.]

Defn: On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is,
on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.

CISATLANTIC
Cis`at*lan"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + Atlantic.]

Defn: On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern or
the western side, according to the standpoint of the writer. Story.

CISCO
Cis"co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of the
Great Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, a
related species of Lake Michigan.

CISELURE
Ci`se*lure", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased.
Weale.

CISLEITHAN
Cis*lei"than, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + Leitha.]

Defn: On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.

CISMONTANE
Cis*mon"tane, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + L. mons mountain.]

Defn: On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane.

CISPADANE
Cis"pa*dane`, a. Etym: [Pref. cis- + L. Padanus, pert. to the Padus
or Po.]

Defn: On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; that
is, on the south side.

CISSOID
Cis"soid, n. Etym: [Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving two
celebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a plane
angle, and to construct two geometrical means between two given
straight lines.

CIST
Cist, n. Etym: [L. cista box, chest, Gr. Chest.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round or
oval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover,
and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings. (b) A cinerary
urn. See Illustration in Appendix.

2. See Cyst.

CISTED
Cist"ed, a.

Defn: Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.

CISTERCIAN
Cis*ter"cian, n. Etym: [LL. Cistercium. F. Cîteaux, a convent not far
from Dijon, in France: cf. F. cistercien.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order,
established in 1098 at Cîteaux, in France, by Robert, abbot of
Molesme. For two hundred years the Cistercians followed the rule of
St. Benedict in all its rigor.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cistercians.

CISTERN
Cis"tern, n. Etym: [OE. cisterne, OF. cisterne, F. cisterne, fr. L.
cisterna, fr. cista box, chest. See Cist, and cf. chest.]

1. An artificial reservoir or tank for holding water, beer, or other
liquids.

2. A natural reservoir; a hollow place containing water. "The wide
cisterns of the lakes." Blackmore.

CISTIC
Cist"ic, a.

Defn: See Cystic.

CIT
Cit (, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. citizen.]

Defn: A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- used
contemptuously. "Insulted as a cit". Johnson
Which past endurance sting the tender cit. Emerson.

CITABLE
Cit"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being cited.

CITADEL
Cit"a*del, n. Etym: [F. citadelle, It. citadella, dicitt city, fr. L.
civitas. See City.]

Defn: A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city and
fortifications, and intended as a final point of defense. Syn. -
Stronghold. See Fortress.

CITAL
Cit"al, n. Etym: [From Cite]

1. Summons to appear, as before a judge. [R.] Johnson

2. Citation; quotation [R.] Johnson.

CITATION
Ci*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. citation, LL. citatio, fr.L. citare to cite.
See Cite]

1. An official summons or notice given to a person to appear; the
paper containing such summons or notice.

2. The act of citing a passage from a book, or from another person,
in his own words; also, the passage or words quoted; quotation.
This horse load of citations and fathers. Milton.

3. Enumeration; mention; as, a citation of facts.

4. (Law)

Defn: A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove a
point in law.

CITATOR
Ci*ta"tor, n.

Defn: One who cites. [R]

CITATORY
Ci"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. citatirius.]

Defn: Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory.

CITE
Cite, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cited; p. pr. & vb. n. Citing] Etym: [F.
citer, fr. L. citare, intens. of cire, ciere, to put in motion, to
excite; akin to Gr.

1. To call upon officially or authoritatively to appear, as before a
court; to summon.
The cited dead, Of all past ages, to the general doom Shall hasten.
Milton.
Cited by finger of God. De Quincey.

2. To urge; to enjoin. [R.] Shak.

3. To quote; to repeat, as a passage from a book, or the words of
another.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose. Shak.

4. To refer to or specify, as for support, proof, illustration, or
confirmation.
The imperfections which you have cited. Shak.

5. To bespeak; to indicate. [Obs.]
Aged honor cites a virtuous youth. Shak.

6. (Law)

Defn: To notify of a proceeding in court. Abbot

Syn.
 -- To quote; mention, name; refer to; adduce; select; call; summon.
See Quote.

CITER
Cit"er, n.

Defn: One who cites.

CITESS
Cit"ess, n. Etym: [From Cit.]

Defn: A city woman [R.]

CITHARA
Cith"a*ra, n. Etym: [L. Cf. Cittern, Guitar.] (Mus.)

Defn: An ancient instrument resembling the harp.

CITHARISTIC
Cith`a*ris"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara.

CITHERN
Cith"ern, n.

Defn: See Cittern.

CITICISM
Cit"i*cism, n. Etym: [From cit.]

Defn: The manners of a cit or citizen.

CITIED
Cit"ied, a.

1. Belonging to, or resembling, a city. "Smoky, citied towns" [R.]
Drayton.

2. Containing, or covered with, cities. [R.] "The citied earth."
Keats.

CITIFIED
Cit"i*fied, a. Etym: [City +-fy.]

Defn: Aping, or having, the manners of a city.

CITIGRADAE
Cit`i*gra"dæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. citus swift (p. p. of cire,
ciere, to move) + gradi to walk. See Cite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula and
the wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture their
prey by rapidly running and jumping. See Wolf spider.

CITIGRADE
Cit"i*grade, a. Etym: [Cf. F. citigrade.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Citigradæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Citigradæ.

CITINER
Cit"i*ner, n.

Defn: One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen. [Obs.] Champan.

CITIZEN
Cit"i*zen, n. Etym: [OE. citisein, OF. citeain, F. citoyen, fr. cité
city. See City, and cf. Cit.]

1. One who enjoys the freedom and privileges of a city; a freeman of
a city, as distinguished from a foreigner, or one not entitled to its
franchises.
That large body of the working men who were not counted as citizens
and had not so much as a vote to serve as an anodyne to their
stomachs. G. Eliot.

2. An inhabitant of a city; a townsman. Shak.

3. A person, native or naturalized, of either sex, who owes
allegiance to a government, and is entitled to reciprocal protection
from it.

Note: This protection is . . . national protection, recognition of
the individual, in the face of foreign nations, as a member of the
state, and assertion of his security and rights abroad as well as at
home. Abbot

4. One who is domiciled in a country, and who is a citizen, though
neither native nor naturalized, in such a sense that he takes his
legal status from such country.

CITIZEN
Cit"i*zen, a.

1. Having the condition or qualities of a citizen, or of citizens;
as, a citizen soldiery.

2. Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a city; characteristic of
citizens; effeminate; luxurious. [Obs.]
I am not well, But not so citizen a wanton as To seem to die ere
sick. Shak.

CITIZENESS
Cit"i*zen*ess, n.

Defn: A female citizen. [R.]

CITIZENSHIP
Cit"i*zen*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen.

CITOLE
Cit"ole, n. Etym: [OF. citole, fr. L. cithara. See Cittern.] (Mus.)

Defn: A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer. [Obs.]

CITRACONIC
Cit`ra*con"ic, a. Etym: [Citric + aconitic.]

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristics
of, citric and aconitic acids. Citraconic acid (Chem.), a white,
crystalline, deliquescent substance, C3H4(CO2H)2, obtained by
distillation of citric acid. It is a compound of the ethylene series.

CITRANGE
Cit"range, n.  [Citrus + orange.]

Defn: A citrous fruit produced by a cross between the sweet orange
and the trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata). It is more acid and
has a more pronounced aroma than the orange; the tree is hardier.
There are several varieties.

CITRATE
Cit"rate, n. Etym: [From Citric.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of citric acid.

CITRIC
Cit"ric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. citrique. See Citron.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as,
citric acid. Citric acid (Chem.), an organic acid, C3H4OH.(CO2H)3,
extracted from lemons, currants, gooseberies, etc., as a white
crystalline substance, having a pleasant sour taste.

CITRINATION
Cit`ri*na"tion, n. Etym: [See Citrine.]

Defn: The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon;
esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stone
indicated by its assuming a deep yellow color. Thynne.

CITRINE
Cit"rine, a. Etym: [F. citrin. See Citron.]

Defn: Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow.
Citrine ointment (Med.), a yellowish mercurial ointment, the
unquentum hydrargyri nitratis.

CITRINE
Cit"rine, n.

Defn: A yellow, pellucid variety of quartz.

CITRON
Cit"ron, n. Etym: [F. citron, LL. citro, fr. L. citrus citron tree
(cf. citreum, sc. malum, a citron), from Gr.

1. (Bot)

Defn: A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly
aromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce.

2. A citron tree.

3. A citron melon. Citron melon. (a) A small variety of muskmelon
with sugary greenish flesh. (b) A small variety of watermelon, whose
solid white flesh is used in making sweetmeats and preserves.
 -- Citron tree (Bot.), the tree which bears citrons. It was probably
a native of northern India, and is now understood to be the typical
form of Citrus Medica.

CITRUS
Cit"rus, n. Etym: [L., a citron tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc.,
originally natives of southern Asia.

CITTERN
Cit"tern, n. Etym: [L.cithara, Gr. Cithara, Gittern.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and
played with a quill or plectrum. [Written also cithern.] Shak.

Note: Not to be confounded with zither.

CITTERN-HEAD
Cit"tern-head`, n.

Defn: Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a cittern
usually ended with a carved head. Marsion

CITY
Cit"y (, n.; pl. Cities. Etym: [OE. cite, F. citcivitas citizenship,
state, city, fr. civis citizen; akin to Goth. heiwa (in heiwafrauja
man of the house), AS. heirath marriage, prop., providing a house, E.
hind a peasant.]

1. A large town.

2. A corporate town; in the United States, a town or collective body
of inhabitants, incorporated and governed by a mayor and aldermen or
a city council consisting of a board of aldermen and a common
council; in Great Britain, a town corporate, which is or has been the
seat of a bishop, or the capital of his see.
A city is a town incorporated; which is, or has been, the see of a
bishop; and though the bishopric has been dissolved, as at
Westminster, it yet remaineth a city. Blackstone
When Gorges constituted York a city, he of course meant it to be the
seat of a bishop, for the word city has no other meaning in English
law. Palfrey

3. The collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city. "What
is the city but the people" Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Village.

CITY
Cit"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a city. Shak. City council. See under
Council.
 -- City court, The municipal court of a city. [U. S.] -- City ward,
a watchman, or the collective watchmen, of a city. [Obs.] Fairfax.

CIVE
Cive, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Chive.

CIVET
Civ"et, n. Etym: [F. civette (cf. It. zibetto) civet, civet cat, fr.
LGr. zub, zab, civet.]

1. A substance, of the consistence of butter or honey, taken from
glands in the anal pouch of the civet (Viverra civetta). It is of
clear yellowish or brownish color, of a strong, musky odor, offensive
when undiluted, but agreeble when a small portion is mixed with
another substance. It is used as a perfume.

2. (Zoöl)

Defn: The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- called
also civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, and
of a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots on
the body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. The
name is also applied to other species.

CIVET
Civ"et, v. t.

Defn: To scent or perfume with civet. Cowper

CIVIC
Civ"ic, a. Etym: [L.civicus, fr. civis citizen. See City.]

Defn: Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to
man as a member of society, or to civil affairs. Civic crown (Rom.
Antiq.), a crown or garland of oak leaves and acorns, bestowed on a
soldier who had saved the life of a citizen in battle.

CIVICISM
Civ"i*cism, n.

Defn: The principle of civil government.

CIVICS
Civ"ics, n.

Defn: The science of civil government.

CIVIL
Civ"il, a. Etym: [L. civilis, fr. civis citizen: cf. F. civil. See
City.]

1. Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to
his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state.

2. Subject to government; reduced to order; civilized; not barbarous;
-- said of the community.
England was very rude and barbarous; for it is but even the other day
since England grew civil. Spenser.

3. Performing the duties of a citizen; obedient to government; --
said of an individual.
Civil men come nearer the saints of God than others; they come within
a step or two of heaven. Preston

4. Having the manners of one dwelling in a city, as opposed to those
of savages or rustics; polite; courteous; complaisant; affable.

Note: "A civil man now is one observant of slight external courtesies
in the mutual intercourse between man and man; a civil man once was
one who fulfilled all the duties and obligations flowing from his
position as a 'civis' and his relations to the other members of that
'civitas.'" Trench

5. Pertaining to civic life and affairs, in distinction from
military, ecclesiastical, or official state.

6. Relating to rights and remedies sought by action or suit distinct
from criminal proceedings. Civil action, an action to enforce the
rights or redress the wrongs of an individual, not involving a
criminal proceeding.
 -- Civil architecture, the architecture which is employed in
constructing buildings for the purposes of civil life, in distinction
from military and naval architecture, as private houses, palaces,
churches, etc.
 -- Civil death. (Law.) See under Death.
 -- Civil engineering. See under Engineering.
 -- Civil law. See under Law.
 -- Civil list. See under List.
 -- Civil remedy (Law), that given to a person injured, by action, as
opposed to a criminal prosecution.
 -- Civil service, all service rendered to and paid for by the state
or nation other than that pertaining to naval or military affairs.
 -- Civil service reform, the substitution of business principles and
methods for the spoils system in the conduct of the civil service,
esp. in the matter of appointments to office.
 -- Civil state, the whole body of the laity or citizens not included
under the military, maritime, and ecclesiastical states.
 -- Civil suit. Same as Civil action.
 -- CCivil war. See under War.
 -- Civil year. See under Year.

CIVILIAN
Ci*vil"ian, n. Etym: [From Civil]

1. One skilled in the civil law.
Ancient civilians and writers upon government. Swift.

2. A student of the civil law at a university or college. R. Graves.

3. One whose pursuits are those of civil life, not military or
clerical.

CIVILIST
Civ"il*ist, n.

Defn: A civilian. [R.] Warbur

CIVILITY
Ci*vil"i*ty, n.; pl. Civilities. Etym: [L. civilitas: cf. F.
civilité. See Civil.]

1. The state of society in which the relations and duties of a
citizen are recognized and obeyed; a state of civilization. [Obs.]
Monarchies have risen from barbarrism to civility, and fallen again
to ruin. Sir J. Davies.
The gradual depature of all deeper signification from the word
civility has obliged the creation of another word -- civilization.
Trench.

2. A civil office, or a civil process [Obs.]
To serve in a civility. Latimer.

3. Courtesy; politeness; kind attention; good breeding; a polite act
or expression.
The insolent civility of a proud man is, if possible, more shocking
than his rudeness could be. Chesterfield.
The sweet civilities of life. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Urbanity; affability; complaisance.

CIVILIZABLE
Civ"i*li`za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being civilized.

CIVILIZATION
Civ`i*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. civilisation.]

1. The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; national
culture; refinement.
Our manners, our civilization, and all the good things connected with
manners, and with civilization, have, in this European world of ours,
depended for ages upon two principles -- . . . the spirit of a
gentleman, and spirit of religion. Burke

2. (Law)

Defn: Rendering a criminal process civil. [Obs.]

CIVILIZE
Civ"i*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Civilized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Civilizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. civilizer, fr.L. civilis civil. See
Civil.]

1. To reclaim from a savage state; to instruct in the rules and
customs of civilization; to educate; to refine.
Yet blest that fate which did his arms dispose Her land to civilize,
as to subdue. Dryden

2. To admit as suitable to a civilized state. [Obs. or R.]
"Civilizing adultery." Milton.

Syn.
 -- To polish; refine; humanize.

CIVILIZED
Civ"i*lized, a.

Defn: Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts,
learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated.
Sale of conscience and duty in open market is not reconcilable with
the present state of civilized society. J. Quincy.

CIVILIZER
Civ"i*li*zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Civil Service Commission.

Defn: In the United States, a commission appointed by the President,
consisting of three members, not more than two of whom may be
adherents of the same party, which has the control, through
examinations, of appointments and promotions in the classified civil
service. It was created by act of Jan, 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403).

CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
Civil Service Reform.

Defn: The substitution of business principles and methods for
political methods in the conduct of the civil service. esp. the merit
system instead of the spoils system in making appointments to office.

CIVILY
Civ"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges;
politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.

CIVISM
Civ"ism, n. Etym: [Cf.F. civisme, fr.L. civis citizen.]

Defn: State of citizenship. [R.] Dyer.

CIZAR
Ciz"ar, v. i. Etym: [From Cizars.]

Defn: To clip with scissors. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

CIZARS
Ciz"ars, n. pl.

Defn: Scissors. [Obs.] Swift.

CIZE
Cize, n.

Defn: Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size.

CLABBER
Clab"ber, n. Etym: [See Bonnyclabber]

Defn: Milk curdled so as to become thick.

CLABBER
Clab"ber, v. i.

Defn: To become clabber; to lopper.

CLACHAN
Clach"an, n. Etym: [Scot., fr.Gael.]

Defn: A small village containing a church. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott
Sitting at the clachon alehouse. R. L. Stevenson.

CLACK
Clack, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clacked;p. pr. & vb. n. Clacking.] Etym:
[Prob. of imitative origin; cf. F.claquer to clap, crack, D. klakken,
MHG. klac crack, Ir. clagaim I make a noise, ring. Cf. Clack, n.,
Clatter, Click.]

1. To make a sudden, sharp noise, or a succesion of such noises, as
by striking an object, or by collision of parts; to rattle; to click.
We heard Mr.Hodson's whip clacking on the ahoulders of the poor
little wretches. Thackeray.

2. To utter words rapidly and continually, or with abruptness; to let
the tongue run.

CLACK
Clack, v. t.

1. To cause to make a sudden, sharp noise, or succession of noises;
to click.

2. To utter rapidly and inconsiderately. Feltham. To clack wool, to
cut off the sheep's mark, in order to make the wool weigh less and
thus yield less duty. [Eng.]

CLACK
Clack, n. Etym: [Cf. F. claque a slap or smack, MHG. klac crack, W.
clec crack, gossip. See Clack, v. t.]

1. A sharp, abrupt noise, or succession of noises, made by striking
an object.

2. Anything that causes a clacking noise, as the clapper of a mill,
or a clack valve.

3. Continual or importunate talk; prattle; prating.
Whose chief intent is to vaunt his spiritual clack. South.
Clack box (Mach.), the box or chamber in which a clack valve works.
 -- Clack dish, a dish with a movable lid, formerly carried by
beggars, who clacked the lid to attract notice. Shak. Clack door
(Mining), removable cover of the opening through which access is had
to a pump valve.
 -- Clack valve (Mach.), a valve; esp. one hinged at one edge, which,
when raised from its seat, falls with a clacking sound.

CLACKER
Clack"er, n.

1. One who clacks; that which clacks; especially, the clapper of a
mill.

2. A claqueur. See Claqueur.

CLAD
Clad, v.t

Defn: To clothe. [Obs.] Holland.

CLAD
Clad,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Clothe.

CLADOCERA
Cla*doc"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of the Entomostraca.

Note: They have a bivalve shell, covering the body but not the head,
and from four to six pairs of legs and two pairs of antenæ, for use
in swimming. They mostly inhabit fresh water.

CLADOPHYLL
Clad"o*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliage
of the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax
(Myrsiphillum).

CLAGGY
Clag"gy, a. Etym: [Cf. Clog.]

Defn: Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.

CLAIK
Claik, n.

Defn: See Clake.

CLAIM
Claim (klam), v. [imp. & p. p. Claimed (klamd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Claiming.] Etym: [OE. clamen, claimen, OF. clamer, fr. L. clamare to
cry out, call; akin to calare to proclaim, Gr. kal to sound, G. holen
to fetch, E. hale haul.]

1. To ask for, or seek to obtain, by virtue of authority, right, or
supposed right; to challenge as a right; to demand as due.

2. To proclaim. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. To call or name. [Obs.] Spenser.

4. To assert; to maintain. [Colloq.]

CLAIM
Claim, v. i.

Defn: To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to have
a claim.
We must know how the first ruler, from whom any one claims, came by
his authority. Locke.

CLAIM
Claim, n. Etym: [Of. claim cry, complaint, from clamer. See Claim,
v.t.]

1. A demand of a right or supposed right; a calling on another for
something due or supposed to be due; an assertion of a right or fact.

2. A right to claim or demand something; a title to any debt,
privilege, or other thing in possession of another; also, a title to
anything which another should give or concede to, or confer on, the
claimant. "A bar to all claims upon land." Hallam.

3. The thing claimed or demanded; that (as land) to which any one
intends to establish a right; as a settler's claim; a miner's claim.
[U.S. & Australia]

4. A laoud call. [Obs.] Spenser
To lay claim to, to demand as a right. "Doth he lay claim to thine
inheritance" Shak.

CLAIMABLE
Claim"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being claimed.

CLAIMANT
Claim"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. clamant, p. pr. of clamer. Cf.Clamant.]

Defn: One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer.

CLAIMER
Claim"er, n.

Defn: One who claims; a claimant.

CLAIMLESS
Claim"less, a.

Defn: Having no claim.

CLAIRAUDIENCE
Clair*au"di*ence, n. [F. clair clear + F. & E. audience a hearing.
See Clear.]

Defn: Act of hearing, or the ability to hear, sounds not normally
audible; -- usually claimed as a special faculty of spiritualistic
mediums, or the like.

CLAIRAUDIENT
Clair*au"di*ent, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, clairaudience.

CLAIRAUDIENT
Clair*au"di*ent, n.

Defn: One alleged to have the power of clairaudience.

CLAIRE
Claire, n. [F.]

Defn: A small inclosed pond used for gathering and greening oysters.

CLAIR-OBSCUR
Clair"-ob*scur" (, n. Etym: [F. See Clare-obscure.]

Defn: See Chiaroscuro.

CLAIRVOYANCE
Clair*voy"ance, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state,
of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normal
condition.

CLAIRVOYANT
Clair*voy"ant, a. Etym: [F., fr. clair clear + voyant, p. pr. of voir
to see. See Clear, and Vision.]

Defn: Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in a
mesmeric state which are not present to the senses.

CLAIRVOYANT
Clair*voy"ant n.

Defn: One who is able, when in a mesmeric state, to discern objects
not present to the senses.

CLAKE; CLAIK
Clake, Claik, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose.

CLAM
Clam, n. Etym: [Cf. Clamp, Clam, v. t., Clammy.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are
edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam
(Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima),
and other species of the United States. The name is said to have been
given originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve.
You shall scarce find any bay or shallow shore, or cove of sand,
where you may not take many clampes, or lobsters, or both, at your
pleasure. Capt. John Smith (1616).
Clams, or clamps, is a shellfish not much unlike a coclke; it lieth
under the sand. Wood (1634).

2. (Ship Carp.)

Defn: Strong pinchers or forceps.

3. pl. (Mech.)

Defn: A kind of vise, usually of wood. Blood clam. See under Blood.

CLAM
Clam (clam), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clamming.]
Etym: [Cf. AS. clæman to clam, smear; akin to Icel. kleima to smear,
OHG. kleimjan, chleimen, to defile, or E. clammy.]

Defn: To clog, as with glutinous or viscous matter.
A swarm of wasps got into a honey pot, and there they cloyed and
clammed Themselves till there was no getting out again. L'Estrange.

CLAM
Clam, v. i.

Defn: To be moist or glutinous; to stick; to adhere. [R.] Dryden

CLAM
Clam, n.

Defn: Claminess; moisture. [R.] "The clam of death." Carlyle.

CLAM
Clam, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. clamor.]

Defn: A crash or clangor made by ringing all the bells of a chime at
once. Nares.

CLAM
Clam, v. t. & i.

Defn: To produce, in bell ringing, a clam or clangor; to cause to
clang. Nares.

CLAMANT
Cla"mant, a. Etym: [L. clamans, p. pr. of clamare to call. Cf.
Claimant.]

Defn: Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorousky. "Clamant children."
Thomson.

CLAMATION
Cla*ma"tion, n. Etym: [LL. clamatio, fr. L. clamare to call.]

Defn: The act of crying out. Sir T. Browne.

CLAMATORES
Clam`a*to"res, n. pl. Etym: [L. clamator, pl. clamatores, a bawler.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles are
but little developed, so that they lack the power of singing.

CLAMATORIAL
Clam`a*to"rial, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Clamatores.

CLAMBAKE
Clam"bake, n.

Defn: The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, between
layers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such an
occasion.

CLAMBER
Clam"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clambered; p. pr. & vb. n. Clambering.]
Etym: [OE clambren, clameren, to heap together, climb; akin to Icel.
klambra to clamp, G. klammern. Cf. Clamp, Climb.]

Defn: To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also used
figuratively.
The narrow street that clambered toward the mill. Tennyson.

CLAMBER
Clam"ber, n.

Defn: The act of clambering. T. Moore.

CLAMBER
Clam"ber, v. t.

Defn: To ascend by climbing with difficulty.
Clambering the walls to eye him. Shak.

CLAMJAMPHRIE
Clam*jam"phrie, n.

Defn: Low, worthless people; the rabble. [Scot.] Jamieson.

CLAMMILY
Clam"mi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clammy manner. "Oozing so clammily." Hood.

CLAMMINESS
Clam"mi*ness, n.

Defn: State of being clammy or viscous.

CLAMMY
Clam"my, a. [Compar. Clammier; superl. Clammiest.] Etym: [Cf. AS.
clam clay. See Clam to clog, and cf. Clay.]

Defn: Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and
sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold
perspiration.

CLAMOR
Clam"or, n. Etym: [OF. clamour, clamur, F. clameur, fr. L. clamor,
fr. clamare to cry out. See Claim.]

1. A great outcry or vociferation; loud and continued shouting or
exclamation. Shak.

2. Any loud and continued noise. Addison.

3. A continued expression of dissatisfaction or discontent; a popular
outcry. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Outcry; exclamation; noise; uproar.

CLAMOR
Clam"or, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clamored; p. pr. & vb. n. Clamoring.]

1. To salute loudly. [R.]
The people with a shout Rifted the air, clamoring their god with
praise. Milton
.

2. To stun with noise. [R.] Bacon.

3. To utter loudly or repeatedly; to shout.
Clamored their piteous prayer incessantly. Longfellow.
To clamor bells, to repeat the strokes quickly so as to produce a
loud clang. Bp. Warbur

CLAMOR
Clam"or, v. i.

Defn: To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain;
to make importunate demands.
The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak.

CLAMORER
Clam"or*er, n.

Defn: One who clamors.

CLAMOROUS
Clam"or*ous, a. Etym: [LL. clamorosus, for L. Clamosus: cf. OF.
clamoreux.]

Defn: Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling or
demanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud;
turbulent. "My young ones were clamorous for a morning's excursion."
Southey.
 -- Clam"or*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Clam"or*ous*ness, n.

CLAMP
Clamp, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. & D. klamp, Dan. klampe, also D. klampen to
fasten, clasp. Cf. Clam, Cramp.]

1. Something rigid that holds fast or binds things together; a piece
of wood or metal, used to hold two or more pieces together.

2.
(a) An instrument with a screw or screws by which work is held in its
place or two parts are temporarily held together.
(b) (Joinery) A piece of wood placed across another, or inserted into
another, to bind or strengthen.

3. One of a pair of movable pieces of lead, or other soft material,
to cover the jaws of a vise and enable it to grasp without bruising.

4. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used to
sustuan the ends of beams.

5. A mass of bricks heaped up to be burned; or of ore for roasting,
or of coal coking.

6. A mollusk. See Clam. [Obs.]
Clamp nails, nails used to fasten on clamps in ships.

CLAMP
Clamp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clamped p. pr. & vb. n. Clamping.]

1. To fasten with a clamp or clamps; to apply a clamp to; to place in
a clamp.

2. To cover, as vegetables, with earth. [Eng.]

CLAMP
Clamp, n. Etym: [Prob. an imitative word. Cf.Clank.]

Defn: A heavy footstep; a tramp.

CLAMP
Clamp, v. i.

Defn: To tread heavily or clumsily; to clump.
The policeman with clamping feet. Thackeray.

CLAMPER
Clamp"er, n.

Defn: An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot or
shoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper. Kane.

CLAN
Clan, n. Etym: [Gael. clann offspring, descendants; akin to Ir.
clann, cland, offspring, tribe, family; perh. from L. plania scion,
slip, cutting. Cf. Plant, n.]

1. A tribe or collection of families, united under a chieftain,
regarded as having the same common ancestor, and bearing the same
surname; as, the clan of Macdonald. "I have marshaled my clan."
Campbell.

2. A clique; a sect, society, or body of persons; esp., a body of
persons united by some common interest or pursuit; -- sometimes used
contemptuously.
Partidge and the rest of his clan may hoot me. Smolett.
The whole clan of the enlightened among us. Burke.

CLANCULAR
Clan"cu*lar, a. Etym: [L. clancularius , from clanculum secretly,
adv. dim. of clam secretly.]

Defn: Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed. [Obs.]
Not close and clancular, but frank and open. Barrow.

CLANCULARLY
Clan"cu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: privately; secretly. [Obs.]

CLANDESTINE
Clan*des"tine, a. Etym: [L. clandestinus, fr. clam secretly; akin to
celare, E. conceal: cf. F. clandestin.]

Defn: Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usually
for an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, a
clandestine marriage. Locke.

Syn.
 -- Hidden; secret; private; concealed; underhand; sly; stealthy;
surreptitious; furtive; fraudulent.
 -- Clan*des"tine*ly, adv.
 -- Clan*des"tine*ness, n.

CLANDESTINITY
Clan`des*tin"i*ty, n.

Defn: Privacy or secrecy. [R.]

CLANG
Clang, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clanged; p. pr. & vb. n. Clanging.] Etym:
[L. clangere; akin to Gr. clank.]

Defn: To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.
The fierce Caretes . . . clanged their sounding arms. Prior.

CLANG
Clang, v. i.

Defn: To give out a clang; to resound. "Clanging hoofs." Tennyson.

CLANG
Clang, n.

1. A loud, ringing sound, like that made by metallic substances when
clanged or struck together.
The broadsword's deadly clang, As if a thousand anvils rang. Sir W.
Scott.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Qualyty of tone.

CLANGOR
Clan"gor, n. Etym: [L., fr. clangere. See Clang, v. t.]

Defn: A sharp, harsh, ringing sound. Dryden.

CLANGOROUS
Clan"gor*ous, a. Etym: [LL. clangorosus.]

Defn: Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.

CLANGOUS
Clan"gous, a.

Defn: Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound. [Obs.]

CLANJAMFRIE
Clan*jam"frie, n.

Defn: Same as Clamjamphrie. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

CLANK
Clank, n. Etym: [Akin to clink, and of imitative origin; cf. G. klang
sound, D. klank. Cf. Clang.]

Defn: A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic
or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less
resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than
clink.
But not in chains to pine, His spirit withered with tyeur clank.
Byron.

CLANK
Clank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Clanking.]

Defn: To cause to sound with a clank; as, the prisoners clank their
chains.

CLANK
Clank, v. i.

Defn: To sound with a clank.

CLANKLESS
Clank"less, a.

Defn: Without a clank. Byreon.

CLAN-NA-GAEL
Clan"-na-Gael", n. [Ir., clan of the Gaels.]

Defn: A secret society of Irish Fenians founded in Philadelphia in
1881.

CLANNISH
Clan"nish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan;
disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by the
traditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan.
 -- Clan"nish*ly, adv.
 -- Clan"nish*ness, n.

CLANSHIP
Clan"ship, n.

Defn: A state of being united togheter as in a clan; an association
under a chieftain.

CLANSMAN
Clans"man, n.; pl. Clansmen.

Defn: One belonging to the same clan with another.

CLAP
Clap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Clapping.] Etym:
[AS. clappan; akin to Icel. & Sw. klappa, D, klappen, to clap, prate,
G. klaffen, v.i., to split open, yelp, klopfen, v.t. & i., to knock.]

1. To strike; to slap; to strike, or strike together, with a quick
motion, so, as to make a sharp noise; as, to clap one's hands; a
clapping of wings.
Then like a bird it sits and sings, And whets and claps its silver
wings. Marvell.

2. To thrust, drive, put, or close, in a hasty or abrupt manner; --
often followed by to, into, on, or upon.
He had just time to get in and clap to the door. Locke
Clap an extinguaisher upon your irony. Lamb.

3. To manifest approbation of, by striking the hands together; to
applaud; as, to clap a performance. To clap hands. (a) To pledge
faith by joining hands. [Obs.] Shak.
(b) To express contempt or derision. [Obs.] Lam. ii. 15. To clap hold
of, to seize roughly or quickly.
 -- To clap up. (a) To imprison hastily or without due formality. (b)
To make or contrive hastily. [Obs.] "Was ever match clapped up so
suddenly" Shak.

CLAP
Clap, v. i.

1. To knock, as at a door. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To strike the hands together in applause.
Their ladies bid them clap. Shak.

3. To come together suddenly with noise.
The doors around me clapped. Dryden.

4. To enter with alacrity and briskness; -- with to or into. [Obs.]
"Shall we clap into it roundly, without . . . saying we are hoarse"
Shak.

5. To talk noisily; to chatter loudly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLAP
Clap, n.

1. A loud noise made by sudden collision; a bang. "Give the door such
a clap, as you go out, as will shake the whole room." Swift.

2. A burst of sound; a sudden explosion.
Horrible claps of thunder. Hakewill.

3. A single, sudden act or motion; a stroke; a blow.
What, fifty of my followers at a clap! Shak.

4. A striking of hands to express approbation.
Unextrected claps or hisses. Addison.

5. Noisy talk; chatter. [Obs.] Chaucer.

6. (Falconry)

Defn: The nether part of the beak of a hawk. Clap dish. See Clack
dish, under Clack, n.
 -- Clap net, a net for taking birds, made to close or clap together.

CLAP
Clap, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. clapoir.]

Defn: Gonorrhea.

CLAPBOARD
Clap"board, n.

1. A narrow board, thicker at one edge than at the other; -- used for
weatherboarding the outside of houses. [U. S.]

2. A stave for a cask. [Eng.] Halliwell.

CLAPBOARD
Clap"board, v. t.

Defn: To cover with clapboards; as, to clapboard the sides of a
house. [U. S.] Bartlett.

CLAPBREAD; CLAPCAKE
Clap"bread`, Clap"cake`, n.

Defn: Oatmeal cake or bread clapped or beaten till it is thin. [Obs.]
Halliwell.

CLAPE
Clape, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird; the flicker.

CLAPPER
Clap"per, n.

1. A person who claps.

2. That which strikes or claps, as the tongue of a bell, or the piece
of wood that strikes a mill hopper, etc. See Illust. of Bell. Clapper
rail (Zoöl.), an Americam species of rail (Rallus scepitans).

CLAPPER
Clap"per, n. Etym: [F. clapier.]

Defn: A rabbit burrow. [Obs.]

CLAPPERCLAW
Clap"per*claw, v. t. Etym: [Clap + claw.]

1. To fight and scratch. C. Smart.

2. To abuse with the tongue; to revile; to scold.

CLAPS
Claps, v. t.

Defn: Variant of Clasp [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLAPTRAP
Clap"trap`, n.

1. A contrivance for clapping in theaters. [Obs.]

2. A trick or device to gain applause; humbug.

CLAPTRAP
Clap"trap`, a.

Defn: Contrived for the purpose of making a show, or gaining
applause; deceptive; unreal.

CLAQUE
Claque, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical
exhibition.

CLAQUEUR
Cla`queur", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater.

CLARE
Clare, n.

Defn: A nun of the order of St.Clare.

CLARENCE
Clar"ence, n.

Defn: A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seat
for the driver.

CLARENCEUX; CLARENCIEUX
Clar"en*ceux, Clar"en*cieux, n. (Her.)

Defn: See King-at-arms.

CLARENDON
Clar"en*don, n.

Defn: A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made in
all sizes.

Note: This line is in nonpareil Clarendon.

CLARE-OBSCURE
Clare"-ob*scure", n. Etym: [L. clarus clear + obscurus obscure; cf.
F. clair-obscur. Cf. Chiaroscuro.] (Painting)

Defn: See Chiaroscuro.

CLARET
Clar"et, n. Etym: [OE. claret, clare, clarry, OF. claret, clar, fr.
cler, F. clair, clear, fr. L. clarus clear. See Clear.]

Defn: The name firat given in England to the red wines of M

CLARIBELLA
Clar`i*bel"la, n. Etym: [NL., from L. clarus clear + bellus fine.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ.

CLARICHORD
Clar"i*chord, n. Etym: [F. clatocorde, fr.L. clarus clear + chorda
string. See Chord.]

Defn: A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; --
called also manichord and clavichord.

CLARIFICATION
Clar`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. clarification, L. clarificatio
glorification.]

1. The act or process of making clear or transparent, by freeing
visible impurities; as, the clarification of wine.

2. The act of freeing from obscurities.
The clarification of men's ideas. Whewell.

CLARIFIER
Clar"i*fi`er, n.

1. That which clarifies.

2. A vessel in which the process of clarification is conducted; as,
the clarifier in sugar works. Ure.

CLARIFY
Clar"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clarified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clarifying.] Etym: [F. clarifier, from L. clarificare; clarus clear +
facere to make. See Clear, and Fact.]

1. To make clear or bright by freeing from feculent matter; to
defecate; to fine; -- said of liquids, as wine or sirup. "Boiled and
clarified." Ure.

2. To make clear; to free from obscurities; to brighten or
illuminate.
To clarify his reason, and to rectify his will. South.

3. To glorify. [Obs.]
Fadir, clarifie thi name. Wyclif (John ii. 28).

CLARIFY
Clar"i*fy, v. i.

1. To grow or become clear or transparent; to become free from
feculent impurities, as wine or other liquid under clarification.

2. To grow clear or bright; to clear up.
Whosoever hath his mind fraught with many thoughts, his wits and
understanding do clarify and break up in the discoursing with
another. Bacon.

CLARIGATE
Clar"i*gate, v. i. Etym: [L. clarigare]

Defn: To declare war with certain ceremonies. [Obs.] Holland.

CLARINET
Clar"i*net`, n. Etym: [F. clarinette, dim. of clarine, from L.
clarus. See Clear, and cf. Clarion.] (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fuller
tone than the oboe, which has a double reed. It is the leading
instrument in a military band.

Note: [Often improperly called clarionet.]

CLARINO
Cla*ri"no, n. Etym: [It. a trumpet.] (Mus.)

Defn: A reed stop in an organ.

CLARION
Clar"i*on, n. Etym: [OE. clarioun, OF. clarion, F. clairon, LL.
clario, claro; so called from its clear tone, fr. L. clarus clear.
See Clear.]

Defn: A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.
He sounds his imperial clarion along the whole line of battle. E.
Everett.

CLARIONET
Clar`i*o*net", n. Etym: [See Clarion, Clarinet.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Clarinet.

CLARISONUS
Cla*ris"o*nus, a. Etym: [L. clarisonus; clarus + sonus.]

Defn: Having a clear sound. [Obs.] Ash.

CLARITUDE
Clar"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. claritudo, fr. clarus clear.]

Defn: Clearness; splendor. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

CLARITY
Clar"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. claritas, fr. clarus clear: cf. F. clarté.]

Defn: Clearness; brightness; splendor.
Floods, in whose more than crystal clarity, Innumerable virgin graces
row. Beaumont.

CLARO-OBSCURO
Cla"ro-ob*scu"ro, n.

Defn: See Chiaroscuro.

CLARRE
Clar`ré", n. Etym: [See Claret.]

Defn: Wine with a mixture of honey and species. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLART
Clart, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Armor. kalar mud, mire, kalara to dirt, Sw.
lort mud.]

Defn: To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

CLARTY
Clart"y, a.

Defn: Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLARY
Clar"y, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Clarion.]

Defn: To make a loud or shrill noise. [Obs.] Golding.

CLARY
Cla"ry, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. sclarea, scarlea, D. & G. scharlei, F.
sclarée.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Salvia sclarea) of the Sage family, used in flavoring
soups. Clary water, a composition of clary flowers with brandy, etc.,
formerly used as a cardiac.

CLASH
Clash, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clashing.] Etym:
[Of imitative origin; cf. G. klatschen, Prov. G. kleschen, D.
kletsen, Dan. klaske, E. clack.]

1. To make a noise by striking against something; to dash noisily
together.

2. To meet in opposition; to act in a contrary direction; to come
onto collision; to interfere.
However some of his interests might clash with those of the chief
adjacent colony. Palfrey.

CLASH
Clash, v. t.

Defn: To strike noisily against or together.

CLASH
Clash n.

1. A loud noise resulting from collision; a noisy collision of
bodies; a collision.
The roll of cannon and clash of arms. Tennyson.

2. Opposition; contradiction; as between differing or contending
interests, views, purposes, etc.
Clashes between popes and kings. Denham.

CLASH GEAR
Clash gear. (Mach.)

Defn: A change-speed gear in which the gears are changed by sliding
endwise.

CLASHINGLY
Clash"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With clashing.

CLASP
Clasp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clasped; p. pr. & vb. n. Clasping] Etym:
[OE. claspen, clapsen, prob. akin to E. clap.]

1. To shut or fasten together with, or as with, a clasp; to shut or
fasten (a clasp, or that which fastens with a clasp).

2. To inclose and hold in the hand or with the arms; to grasp; to
embrace.

3. To surround and cling to; to entwine about. "Clasping ivy."
Milton.

CLASP
Clasp, n.

1. An adjustable catch, bent plate, or hook, for holding together two
objects or the parts of anything, as the ends of a belt, the covers
of a book, etc.

2. A close embrace; a throwing of the arms around; a grasping, as
with the hand. Clasp knife, a large knife, the blade of which folds
or shuts into the handle.
 -- Clasp lock, a lock which closes or secures itself by means of a
spring.

CLASPER
Clasp"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, clasps, as a tendril. "The claspers of
vines." Derham.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of a pair of organs used by the male for grasping the female
among many of the Crustacea.
(b) One of a pair of male copulatory organs, developed on the
anterior side of the ventral fins of sharks and other elasmobranchs.
See Illust. of Chimæra.

CLASPERED
Clasp"ered, a.

Defn: Furnished with tendrils.

CLASS
Class, n. Etym: [F. classe, fr. L. classis class, collection, fleet;
akin to Gr. claim, haul.]

1. A group of individuals ranked together as possessing common
characteristics; as, the different classes of society; the educated
class; the lower classes.

2. A number of students in a school or college, of the same standing,
or pursuing the same studies.

3. A comprehensive division of animate or inanimate objects, grouped
together on account of their common characteristics, in any
classification in natural science, and subdivided into orders,
families, tribes, gemera, etc.

4. A set; a kind or description, species or variety.
She had lost one class energies. Macaulay.

5. (Methodist Church)

Defn: One of the sections into which a church or congregation is
divided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader. Class
of a curve (Math.), the kind of a curve as expressed by the number of
tangents that can be drawn from any point to the curve. A circle is
of the second class.
 -- Class meeting (Methodist Church), a meeting of a class under the
charge of a class leader, for counsel and relegious instruction.

CLASS
Class, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Classed; p. pr. & vb. n. Classing.] Etym:
[Cf. F. classer. See Class, n.]

1. To arrange in classes; to classify or refer to some class; as, to
class words or passages.

Note: In scientific arrangement, to classify is used instead of to
class. Dana.

2. To divide into classes, as students; to form into, or place in, a
class or classes.

CLASS
Class, v. i.

Defn: To grouped or classed.
The genus or famiky under which it classes. Tatham.

CLASS DAY
Class day.

Defn: In American colleges and universities, a day of the
commencement season on which the senior class celebrates the
completion of its course by exercises conducted by the members, such
as the reading of the class histories and poem, the delivery of the
class oration, the planting of the class ivy, etc.

CLASSIBLE
Class"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being classed.

CLASSIC; CLASSICAL
Clas"sic, Clas"sic*al, a. Etym: [L. classicus relating to the classes
of the Roman people, and especially to the frist class; hence, of the
first rank, superior, from classis class: cf. F. classique. See
Class, n.]

1. Of or relating to the first class or rank, especially in
literature or art.
Give, as thy last memorial to the age, One classic drama, and reform
the stage. Byron.
Mr. Greaves may justly be reckoned a classical author on this subject
[Roman weights and coins]. Arbuthnot.

2. Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks and Romans, esp. to Greek
or Roman authors of the highest rank, or of the period when their
best literature was produced; of or pertaining to places inhabited by
the ancient Greeks and Romans, or rendered famous by their deeds.
Though throned midst Latium's classic plains. Mrs. Hemans.
The epithet classical, as applied to ancient authors, is determined
less by the purity of their style than by the period at which they
wrote. Brande & C.
He [Atterbury] directed the classical studies of the undergraduates
of his college. Macaulay.

3. Conforming to the best authority in literature and art; chaste;
pure; refined; as, a classical style.
Classical, provincial, and national synods. Macaulay.
Classicals orders. (Arch.) See under Order.

CLASSIC
Clas"sic, n.

1. A work of acknowledged excellence and authrity, or its author; --
originally used of Greek and Latin works or authors, but now applied
to authors and works of a like character in any language.
In is once raised him to the rank of a legitimate English classic.
Macaulay.

2. One learned in the literature of Greece and Rome, or a student of
classical literature.

CLASSICALISM
Clas"sic*al*ism, n.

1. A classical idiom, style, or expression; a classicism.

2. Adherence to what are supposed or assumed to be the classical
canons of art.

CLASSICALIST
Clas"sic*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.
Ruskin.

CLASSICALITY; CLASSICALNESS
Clas`si*cal"i*ty, Clas"sic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being classical.

CLASSICALLY
Clas"sic*al*ly, adv.

1. In a classical manner; according to the manner of classical
authors.

2. In the manner of classes; according to a regular order of classes
or sets.

CLASSICISM
Clas"si*cism, n.

Defn: A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism. C. Kingsley.

CLASSICIST
Clas"si*cist, n.

Defn: One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics.

CLASSIFIABLE
Clas"si*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being classified.

CLASSIFIC
Clas*sif"ic, a.

Defn: Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification.

CLASSIFICATION
Clas`si*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. classification.]

Defn: The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution into
groups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some common
relations or affinities. Artificial classification. (Science) See
under Artifitial.

CLASSIFICATORY
Clas"si*fi*ca`to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification. "A
classificatory system." Earle.

CLASSIFIER
Clas"si*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who classifies.

CLASSIFY
Clas"si*fy, v. t. [imp. & pp. Classified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Classifying.] Etym: [L. classis class +

Defn: To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system;
to arrnge in sets according to some method founded on common
properties or characters.

Syn.
 -- To arrange; distibute; rank.

CLASSIS
Clas"sis, n.; pl. Classes. Etym: [L. See Class, n.]

1. A class or order; sort; kind. [Obs.]
His opinion of that classis of men. Clarendon.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: An ecclesiastical body or judicat

CLASSMAN
Class"man, n.; pl. Classmen(#).

1. A member of a class; a classmate.

2. A candidate for graduation in arts who is placed in an honor
class, as opposed to a passman, who is not classified. [Oxford, Eng.]

CLASSMATE
Class"mate`, n.

Defn: One who is in the same class with another, as at school or
college.

CLASTIC
Clas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Pertaining to what may be taken apart; as, clastic anatomy (of
models).

2. (Min.)

Defn: Fragmental; made up of brokas, sandstone is a clastic rock.

CLATCH
Clatch, n. [Cf. Scot. clatch a slap, the noise caused by the
collision of soft bodies; prob. of imitative origin.] (Scot. & Dial.
Eng.)

1. A soft or sloppy lump or mass; as, to throw a clatch of mud.

2.  Anything put together or made in a careless or slipshod way;
hence, a sluttish or slipshod woman.

CLATCH
Clatch, v. t. & i.

Defn: To daub or smear, as with lime; to make or finish in a slipshod
way. [Scot.]

CLATHRATE
Clath"rate, a. Etym: [L. clathri latti

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a lattice; cancellate. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the surface marked with raised lines resembling a
lattice, as many shells.

CLATTER
Clat"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Clattering.]
Etym: [AS. cla a rattle, akin to D. klateren to rattle. Cf. Clack.]

1. To make a rattling sound by striking hard bodies together; to make
a succession of abrupt, rattling sounds.
Clattering loud with clamk. Longfellow.

2. To talk fast and noisily; to rattle with the tongue.
I see thou dost but clatter. Spenser.

CLATTER
Clat"ter, v. t.

Defn: To make a rattling noise with.
You clatter still your brazen kettle. Swift.

CLATTER
Clat"ter, n.

1. A rattling noise, esp. that made by the collision of hard bodies;
also, any loud, abrupt sound; a repetition of abrupt sounds.
The goose let fall a golden egg With cackle and with clatter.
Tennyson.

2. Commotion; disturbance. "Those mighty feats which made such a
clatter in story." Barrow.

3. Rapid, noisy talk; babble; chatter. "Hold still thy clatter."
Towneley Myst. (15 th Cent. ).
Throw by your clatter And handle the matter. B. Jonson

CLATTERER
Clat"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who clatters.

CLATTERINGLY
Clat"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With clattering.

CLAUDE LORRAINE GLASS
Claude" Lor*raine" glass`. Etym: [Its name is supposed to be derived
from the similarity of the effects it gives to those of a picture by
Claude Lorrain (often written Lorraine).]

Defn: A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as a
toy for viewing the reflected landscape.

CLAUDENT
Clau"dent, a. Etym: [L. claudens, p. pr. of claudere to shut.]

Defn: Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle.
[R.] Jonson

CLAUDICANT
Clau"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. claudicans, p. pr. of claudicare to limp,
fr. claudus lame.]

Defn: Limping. [R.]

CLAUDICATION
Clau`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. claudicatio.]

Defn: A halting or limping. [R.] Tatler.

CLAUSE
Clause, n. Etym: [F. clause, LL. clausa, equiv. to L. clausula
clause, prop., close of claudere to shut, to end. See Close.]

1. A separate portion of a written paper, paragraph, or sentence; an
article, stipulation, or proviso, in a legal document.
The usual attestation clause to a will. Bouvier.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containing
a subject and its predicate.

CLAUSE
Clause, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Letters clause or close, under Letter.

CLAUSTRAL
Claus"tral, a. Etym: [F., fr. LL. claustralis, fr. L. claustrum. See
Cloister.]

Defn: Cloistral. Ayliffe

CLAUSTRUM
Claus"trum, n.; pl. Claustra. Etym: [L., a bolt or bar.] (Anat.)

Defn: A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemiphere of the
brain of man.
 -- Claus"tral, a.

CLAUSULAR
Clau"su*lar, a. Etym: [From L. clausula. See Clause, n.]

Defn: Consisting of, or having, clauses. Smart.

CLAUSURE
Clau"sure, n. Etym: [L. clausura. See Closure.]

Defn: The act of shutting up or confining; confinement. [R.] Geddes.

CLAVATE; CLAVATED
Cla"vate, Cla"va*ted, a. Etym: [L. clava club.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually
thicker toward the top.

Note: [See Illust. of Antennae.]

CLAVE
Clave,

Defn: imp. of Cleave. [Obs.]

CLAVECIN
Clav"e*cin, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The harpsichord.

CLAVEL
Cla"vel, n.

Defn: See Clevis.

CLAVELLATE
Clav"el*late, a.

Defn: See Clavate.

CLAVELLATED
Clav"el*la`ted, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. cineres clavelatti ashes of burnt
lees or dregs of wine, F. clavel an inferior sort of soda, E.
clavate.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Said of potash, probably in reference to its having been
obtained from billets of wood by burning. [Obs.]

CLAVER
Clav"er, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Clover. Holland.

CLAVER
Clav"er, n.

Defn: Frivolous or nonsensical talk; prattle; chattering. [Scot. &
North of Eng.]
Emmy found herself entirely at a loss in the midst of their clavers.
Thackeray.

CLAVICHORD
Clav"i*chord, n. Etym: [F. clavicorde, fr. L. clavis key + chorda
string.] (Mus.)

Defn: A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte.
See Clarichord.

CLAVICLE
Clav"i*cle, n. Etym: [F. clavicule, fr. L. clavicula a little key,
tendril, dim. of clavis key, akin to claudere to shut. See Close, and
cf. Clef.] (Anat.)

Defn: The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, or
shoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. In
man each clavicle is shaped like the letter

CLAVICORN
Clav"i*corn, a. Etym: [Cf. F. clavicorne.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having club-shaped antennæ. See Antennæ -- n.

Defn: One of the Clavicornes.

CLAVICORNES
Clav`i*cor"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; Fr. L. clava club + cornu horn.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of beetles having club-shaped antennæ.

CLAVICULAR
Cla*vic"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. claviculaire. See Clavicle.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the clavicle.

CLAVIER
Cla"vi*er ( F. ), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. clavis key.] (Mus.)

Defn: The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.

Note: Clavier (

CLAVIFORM
Clav"i*form, a. Etym: [L. clava club + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Club-shaped; clavate. Craig.

CLAVIGER
Clav"i*ger, n. Etym: [L., fr. clavis key + gerere to carry.]

Defn: One who carries the keys of any place.

CLAVIGER
Clav"i*ger, n. Etym: [L., fr. clava club + gerere to carry.]

Defn: One who carries a club; a club bearer.

CLAVIGEROUS
Cla*vig"er*ous, a.

Defn: Bearing a club or a key.

CLAVIS
Cla"vis, n.; pl. L. Claves, E. Clavises. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A key; a glossary.

CLAVUS
Cla"vus, n. Etym: [L., a nail.]

Defn: A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn.

CLAVY
Cla"vy, n.; pl. Clavies. Etym: [Cf. F. claveau centerpiece of an
arch.] (Arch.)

Defn: A mantelpiece.

CLAW
Claw, n. Etym: [AS. clawu, cla, cleó; akin to D. klaauw, G. Klaue,
Icel. klo, SW. & Dan. klo, and perh. to E. clew.]

1. A sharp, hooked nail, as of a beast or bird.

2. The whole foot of an animal armed with hooked nails; the pinchers
of a lobster, crab, etc.

3. Anything resembling the claw of an animal, as the curved and
forked end of a hammer for drawing nails.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the base
of petals of the pink. Gray. Claw hammer, a hammer with one end of
the metallic head cleft for use in extracting nails, etc.
 -- Claw hammer coat, a dress coat of the swallowtail pattern.
[Slang] -- Claw sickness, foot rot, a disease affecting sheep.

CLAW
Claw, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clawing.] Etym:
[AS. clawan. See Claw, n.]

1. To pull, tear, or scratch with, or as with, claws or nails.

2. To relieve from some uneasy sensation, as by scratching; to
tickle; hence, to flatter; to court. [Obs.]
Rich men they claw, soothe up, and flatter; the poor they contemn and
despise. Holland.

3. To rail at; to scold. [Obs.]
In the aforesaid preamble, the king fairly claweth the great
monasteries, wherein, saith he, religion, thanks be to God, is right
well kept and observed; though he claweth them soon after in another
acceptation. T. Fuller
Claw me, claw thee, stand by me and I will stand by you; -- an old
proverb. Tyndale. To claw away, to scold or revile. "The jade Fortune
is to be clawed away for it, if you should lose it." L'Estrange. To
claw (one) on the back, to tickle; to express approbation. (Obs.)
Chaucer.
 -- To claw (one) on the gall, to find falt with; to vex. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

CLAW
Claw, v. i.

Defn: To scrape, scratch, or dig with a claw, or with the hand as a
claw. "Clawing [in ash barrels] for bits of coal." W. D. Howells. To
claw off (Naut.), to turn to windward and beat, to prevent falling on
a lee shore.

CLAWBACK
Claw"back`, n.

Defn: A flatterer or sycophant. [Obs.] "Take heed of these
clawbacks." Latimer.

CLAWBACK
Claw"back`, a.

Defn: Flattering; sycophantic. [Obs.]
Like a clawback parasite. Bp. Hall.

CLAWBACK
Claw"back`, v. t.

Defn: To flatter. [Obs.] Warner.

CLAWED
Clawed, a.

Defn: Furnished with claws. N. Grew.

CLAWLESS
Claw"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of claws.

CLAY
Clay, n. Etym: [AS. clæg; akin to LG. klei, D. klei, and perh. to AS.
clam clay, L. glus, gluten glue, Gr. glue. Cf. Clog.]

1. A soft earth, which is plastuc, or may be molded with the hands,
consisting of hydrous silicate of alumunium. It is the result of the
wearing down and decomposition, in part, of rocks containing
aluminous minerals, as granite. Lime, magnesia, oxide of iron, and
other ingredients, are often present as impurities.

2. (Poetry & Script.)

Defn: Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles of
the human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles.
I also am formed out of the clay. Job xxxiii. 6.
The earth is covered thick with other clay, Which her own clay shall
cover. Byron.
Bowlder clay. See under Bowlder.
 -- Brick clay, the common clay, containing some iron, and therefore
turning red when burned.
 -- Clay cold, cold as clay or earth; lifeless; inanimate.
 -- Clay ironstone, an ore of iron consisting of the oxide or
carbonate of iron mixed with clay or sand.
 -- Clay marl, a whitish, smooth, chalky clay.
 -- Clay mill, a mill for mixing and tempering clay; a pug mill.
 -- Clay pit, a pit where clay is dug.
 -- Clay slate (Min.), argillaceous schist; argillite.
 -- Fatty clays, clays having a greasy feel; they are chemical
compounds of water, silica, and aluminia, as halloysite, bole, etc.
 -- Fire clay , a variety of clay, entirely free from lime, iron, or
an alkali, and therefore infusible, and used for fire brick.
 -- Porcelain clay, a very pure variety, formed directly from the
decomposition of feldspar, and often called kaolin.
 -- Potter's clay, a tolerably pure kind, free from iron.

CLAY
Clay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Claying.]

1. To cover or manure with clay.

2. To clarify by filtering through clay, as sugar.

CLAY-BRAINED
Clay"-brained`, a.

Defn: Stupid. [Obs.] Shak.

CLAYES
Clayes, n. pl. Etym: [F. claie hurdle.] (Fort.)

Defn: Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers,
to cover lodgments. [Obs.]

CLAYEY
Clay"ey, a.

Defn: Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay;
like clay.

CLAYISH
Clay"ish, a.

Defn: Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it.

CLAYMORE
Clay"more`, n. Etym: [Gael. claidheamhmor a broadsword; Gael.
claidheamh sword + mor great, large. Cf. Claymore.]

Defn: A large two-handed sword used formerly by the Scottish
Highlanders.

CLAYTONIA
Clay*to"ni*a, n. Etym: [Named after Dr.John Clayton, an American
botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; --
sometimes called spring beauty.

CLEADING
Clead"ing, n. Etym: [Scot., clothing. See Cloth.]

1. A jacket or outer covering of wood, etc., to prevent radiation of
heat, as from the boiler, cylinder. etc., of a steam engine.

2. The planking or boarding of a shaft, cofferdam, etc.

CLEAN
Clean, a. [Compar. Cleaner (; superl. Cleanest.] Etym: [OE. clene,
AS. cl; akin to OHG. chleini pure, neat, graceful, small, G. klein
small, and perh. to W. glan clean, pure, bright; all perh. from a
primitive, meaning bright, shining. Cf. Glair.]

1. Free from dirt or filth; as, clean clothes.

2. Free from that which is useless or injurious; without defects; as,
clean land; clean timber.

3. Free from awkwardness; not bungling; adroit; dexterous; as, aclean
trick; a clean leap over a fence.

4. Free from errors and vulgarisms; as, a clean style.

5. Free from restraint or neglect; complete; entire.
When ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not make clean
riddance of corners of thy field. Le

6. Free from moral defilement; sinless; pure.
Create in me a clean heart, O God. Ps. li. 10
That I am whole, and clean, and meet for Heaven Tennyson.

7. (Script.)

Defn: Free from ceremonial defilement.

8. Free from that which is corrupting to the morals; pure in tone;
healthy. "Lothair is clean." F. Harrison.

9. Well-proportioned; shapely; as, clean limbs. A clean bill of
health, a certificate from the proper authrity that a ship is free
from infection.
 -- Clean breach. See under Breach, n., 4.
 -- To make a clean breast. See under Breast.

CLEAN
Clean, adv.

1. Without limitation or remainder; quite; perfectly; wholly;
entirely. "Domestic broils clean overblown." Shak. "Clean contrary."
Milton.
All the people were passed clean over Jordan. Josh. iii. 17.

2. Without miscarriage; not bunglingly; dexterously. [Obs.] "Pope
came off clean with Homer." Henley.

CLEAN
Clean, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleaned; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleaning.] Etym:
[See Clean, a., and cf. Cleanse.]

Defn: To render clean; to free from whatever is foul, offensive, or
extraneous; to purify; to cleanse. To clean out, to exhaust; to
empty; to get away from (one) all his money. [Colloq.] De Quincey.

CLEAN-CUT
Clean"-cut`, a.

Defn: See Clear-cut.

CLEANER
Clean"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, cleans.

CLEANING
Clean"ing, n.

1. The act of making clean.

2. The afterbirth of cows, ewes, etc. Gardner.

CLEANLILY
Clean"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cleanly manner.

CLEAN-LIMBED
Clean"-limbed`, a.

Defn: With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbed
young fellow. Dickens.

CLEANLINESS
Clean"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Cleanly.]

Defn: State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress.
Cleanliness from head to heel. Swift.

CLEANLY
Clean"ly, a. [Compar. Cleanlier; superl. Cleanliest.] Etym: [From
Clean.]

1. Habitually clean; pure; innocent. "Cleanly joys." Glanvill.
Some plain but cleanly country maid. Dryden.
Displays her cleanly platter on the board. Goldsmith.

2. Cleansing; fitted to remove moisture; dirt, etc. [Obs.] "With
cleanly powder dry their hair." Prior.

3. Adroit; skillful; dexterous; artful. [Obs.]
Through his fine handling and his cleanly play. Spenser.

CLEANLY
Clean"ly, adv.

1. In a clean manner; neatly.
He was very cleanly dressed. Dickens.

2. Innocently; without stain. Shak.

3. Adroitly; dexterously. Middleton.

CLEANNESS
Clean"ness, n. Etym: [AS. cl. See Clean.]

1. The state or quality of being clean.

2. Purity of life or language; freedom from licentious courses.
Chaucer.

CLEANSABLE
Cleans"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being cleansed. Sherwood.

CLEANSE
Cleanse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleansed; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleansing.]
Etym: [AS. clænsian, fr. clæne clean. See Clean.]

Defn: To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection,
guilt, etc.; to clean.
If we walk in the light . . . the blood of Jesus Christ his son
cleanseth us from all sin. 1 John i. 7.
Can'st thou not minister to a mind diseased, And with some sweet
oblivious antidote Cleanse the suffed bosom of that perilous stuff
Which weighs upon the heart Shak.

CLEANSER
Cleans"er, n. Etym: [AS. cl.]

Defn: One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent. Arbuthnot.

CLEAN-TIMBERED
Clean"-tim`bered, a.

Defn: Well-propotioned; symmetrical. [Poetic] Shak.

CLEAR
Clear, a. [Compar. Clearer; superl. Clearest.] Etym: [OE. cler,
cleer, OF. cler, F. clair, fr.L. clarus, clear, broght, loud,
distinct, renownwd; perh. akin to L. clamare to call, E. claim. Cf.
Chanticleer, Clairvoyant, Claret, Clarufy.]

1. Free from opaqueness; transparent; bright; light; luminous;
unclouded.
The stream is so transparent, pure, and clear. Denham.
Fair as the moon, clear as the sun. Canticles vi. 10.

2. Free from ambiquity or indistinctness; lucid; perspicuous; plain;
evident; manifest; indubitable.
One truth is clear; whatever is, is right. Pop

3. Able to perceive clearly; keen; acute; penetrating;
discriminating; as, a clear intellect; a clear head.
Mother of science! now I feel thy power Within me clear, not only to
discern Things in their causes, but to trace the ways Of highest
agents. Milton.

4. Not clouded with passion; serene; cheerful.
With a countenance as clear As friendship wears at feasts. Shak.

5. Easily or distinctly heard; audible; canorous.
Hark! the numbers soft and clear Gently steal upon the ear. Pope.

6. Without mixture; entirely pure; as, clear sand.

7. Without defect or blemish, such as freckles or knots; as, a clear
complexion; clear lumber.

8. Free from guilt or stain; unblemished.
Statesman, yet friend to truth! in soul sincere, In action faithful,
and in honor clear. Pope.

9. Without diminution; in full; net; as, clear profit.
I often wished that I had clear, For life, six hundred pounds a-year.
Swift
.

10. Free from impediment or obstruction; unobstructed; as, a clear
view; to keep clear of debt.
My companion . . . left the way clear for him. Addison.

11. Free from embarrassment; detention, etc.
The cruel corporal whispered in my ear, Five pounds, if rightly
tipped, would set me clear. Gay.
Clear breach. See under Breach, n., 4.
 -- Clear days (Law.), days reckoned from one day to another,
excluding both the first and last day; as, from Sunday to Sunday
there are six clear days.
 -- Clear stuff, boards, planks, etc., free from knots.

Syn.
 -- Manifest; pure; unmixed; pellucid; transparent; luminous;
obvious; visible; plain; evident; apparent; distinct; perspicuous.
See Manifest.

CLEAR
Clear, n. (Carp.)

Defn: Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; the
distance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the space
between walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear.

CLEAR
Clear, adv.

1. In a clear manner; plainly.
Now clear I understand What oft . . . thoughts have searched in vain.
Milton.

2. Without limitation; wholly; quite; entirely; as, to cut a piece
clear off.

CLEAR
Clear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleared; p. pr. & vb. n. Clearing.]

1. To render bright, transparent, or undimmed; to free from clouds.
He sweeps the skies and clears the cloudy north. Dryden.

2. To free from impurities; to clarify; to cleanse.

3. To free from obscurity or ambiguity; to relive of perplexity; to
make perspicuous.
Many knotty points there are Which all discuss, but few can clear.
Prior.

4. To render more quick or acute, as the understanding; to make
perspicacious.
Our common prints would clear up their understandings. Addison

5. To free from impediment or incumbrance, from defilement, or from
anything injurious, useless, or offensive; as, to clear land of trees
or brushwood, or from stones; to clear the sight or the voice; to
clear one's self from debt; -- often used with of, off, away, or out.
Clear your mind of cant. Dr. Johnson.
A statue lies hid in a block of marble; and the art of the statuary
only clears away the superfluous matter. Addison.

6. To free from the imputation of guilt; to justify, vindicate, or
acquit; -- often used with from before the thing imputed.
I . . . am sure he will clear me from partiality. Dryden.
How! wouldst thou clear rebellion Addison.

7. To leap or pass by, or over, without touching or fallure; as, to
clear a hedge; to clear a reef.

8. To gain without deduction; to net.
The profit which she cleared on the cargo. Macaulay.
To clear a ship at the customhouse, to exhibit the documents required
by law, give bonds, or perform other acts requisite, and procure a
permission to sail, and such papers as the law requires.
 -- To clear a ship for action, or To clear for action (Naut.), to
remove incumbrances from the decks, and prepare for an engagement.
 -- To clear the land (Naut.), to gain such a distance from shore as
to have sea room, and be out of danger from the land.
 -- To clear hawse (Naut.), to disentangle the cables when twisted.
 -- To clear up, to explain; to dispel, as doubts, cares or fears.

CLEAR
Clear, v. i.

1. To become free from clouds or fog; to become fair; -- often
fallowed by up, off, or away.
So foul a sky clears without a strom. Shak.
Advise him to stay till the weather clears up. Swift.

2. To disengage one's self frpm incumbrances, distress, or
entanglements; to become free. [He that clears at once will relapse;
for finding himself out of straits, he will revert to the customs;
but he that cleareth by degrees induceth a habit of frugality. Bacon.

3. (Banking)

Defn: To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as
is done in a clearing house.

4. To obtain a clearance; as, the steamer cleared for Liverpool to-
day.
To clear out, to go or run away; to depart. [Colloq.]

CLEARAGE
Clear"age, n.

Defn: The act of reforming anything; clearance. [R.]

CLEARANCE
Clear"ance, n.

1. The act of clearing; as, to make a through clearance.

2. A certificate that a ship or vessel has been cleared at the
customhouse; permission to sail.
Every ship was subject to seizure for want of stamped clearances.
Durke

3. Clear or net profit. Trollope.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: The distance by which one object clears another, as the
distance between the piston and cylinder head at the end of a stroke
in a steam engine, or the least distance between the point of a
cogwell tooth and the bottom of a space between teeth of a wheel with
which it engages. Clearance space (Steam engine), the space inclosed
in one end of the cylinder, between the valve or valves and the
piston, at the beginning of a stroke; waste room. It includes the
space caused by the piston's clearance and the space in ports,
passageways, etc. Its volume is often expressed as a certain
proportion of the volume swept by the piston in a single stroke.

CLEARCOLE
Clear"cole`, n. [F. claire colle clear glue; clair clear (f. claire)
+ colle glue, Gr. ]

Defn: A priming of size mixed with whiting or white lead, used in
house painting, etc.; also, a size upon which gold leaf is applied in
gilding.

CLEARCOLE
Clear"cole`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Clearcoled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clearcoling.]

Defn: To coat or paint with clearcole.

CLEAR-CUT
Clear"-cut`, a.

1. Having a sharp, distinct outline, like that of a cameo.
She has . . . a cold and clear-cut face. Tennyson.

2. Concisely and distinctly expressed.

CLEAREDNESS
Clear"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cleared.
Imputed by his friends to the clearedness, by his foes to the
searedness, of his conscience. T. Fuller.

CLEARER
Clear"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, clears.
Gold is a wonderful clearer of the understanding. Addison.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A tool of which the hemp for lines and twines, used by
sailmakers, is finished.

CLEAR-HEADED
Clear"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent.
"He was laborious and clear-headed." Macaulay.
 -- Clear"-head`ed*ness, n.

CLEARING
Clear"ing, n.

1. The act or process of making clear.
The better clearing of this point. South.

2. A tract of land cleared of wood for cultivation.
A lonely clearing on the shores of Moxie Lake. J. Burroughs.

3. A method adopted by banks and bankers for making an exchange of
checks held by each against the others, and settling differences of
accounts.

Note: In England, a similar method has been adopted by railroads for
adjusting their accounts with each other.

4. The gross amount of the balances adjusted in the clearing house.
Clearing house, the establishment where the business of clearing is
carried on. See above, 3.

CLEARLY
Clear"ly, adv.

Defn: In a clear manner.

CLEARNESS
Clear"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being clear.

Syn.
 -- Clearness, Perspicuity. Clearness has reference to our ideas, and
springs from a distinct conception of the subject under
consideration. Perspicuity has reference to the mode of expressing
our ideas and belongs essentially to style. Hence we speak of a
writer as having clear ideas, a clear arrangement, and perspicuous
phraseology. We do at times speak of a person's having great
clearness of style; but in such cases we are usually thinking of the
clearness of his ideas as manifested in language. "Whenever men think
clearly, and are thoroughly interested, they express themselves with
perspicuity and force." Robertson.

CLEAR-SEEING
Clear"-see`ing, a.

Defn: Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clear
understanding.

CLEAR-SHINING
Clear"-shin`ing, a.

Defn: Shining brightly. Shak.

CLEAR-SIGHTED
Clear"-sight`ed, a.

Defn: Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason

CLEAR-SIGHTEDNESS
Clear"-sight`ed*ness, n.

Defn: Acute discernment.

CLEARSTARCH
Clear"starch`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clearstarched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clearstraching.]

Defn: To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping with
the hands; as, to clearstarch muslin.

CLEARSTARCHER
Clear"starch`er, n.

Defn: One who clearstarches.

CLEARSTORY; CLERESTORY
Clear"sto`ry, Clere"sto`ry, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows,
and rising above the aisle roofs.

CLEARWING
Clear"wing`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lepidop terous insect with partially transparent wings, of
the family Ægeriadæ, of which the currant and peach-tree borers are
examples.

CLEAT
Cleat (klet), n. Etym: [OE. clete wedge; cf.D. kloot ball, Ger.
kloss, klotz, lump. clod, MHG. kloz lump, ball, wedge, OHG. chloz
ball, round mass.]

1. (Carp.)

Defn: A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something
in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A device made of wood or metal, having two arms, around which
turns may be taken with a line or rope so as to hold securely and yet
be readily released. It is bolted by the middle to a deck or mast,
etc., or it may be lashed to a rope.

CLEAT
Cleat, v. t.

Defn: To strengthen with a cleat.

CLEAVABLE
Cleav"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of cleaving or being divided.

CLEAVAGE
Cleav"age, n.

1. The act of cleaving or splitting.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: The quality possessed by many crystallized substances of
splitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which the
cohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smooth
surfaces; the direction of the dividing plane; a fragment obtained by
cleaving, as of a diamond. See Parting.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Division into laminæ, like slate, with the lamination not
necessarily parallel to the plane of deposition; -- usually produced
by pressure. Basal cleavage, cleavage parallel to the base of a
crystal, or to the plane of the lateral axes.
 -- Cell cleavage (Biol.), multiplication of cells by fission. See
Segmentation.
 -- Cubuc cleavage, cleavage parallel to the faces of a cube.
 -- Diagonal cleavage, cleavage parallel to ta diagonal plane.
 -- Egg clavage. (Biol.) See Segmentation.
 -- Lateral cleavage, cleavage parallel to the lateral planes.
 -- Octahedral, Dodecahedral, or Rhombohedral, cleavage, cleavage
parallel to the faces of an octahedron, dodecahedron, or
rhombohedron.
 -- Prismatic cleavage, cleavage parallel to a vertical prism.

CLEAVE
Cleave, v. i. [.. Cleaved (, Clave (, (Obs.); p. p. Cleaved; p. pr. &
vb. n. Cleaving.] Etym: [OE. cleovien, clivien, cliven, AS. cleofian,
clifian; akin to OS. klibon, G. kleben, LG. kliven, D. kleven, Dan.
klæbe, Sw. klibba, and also to G. kleiben to cleve, paste, Icel.
klifa to climb. Cf. Climb.]

1. To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.
My bones cleave to my skin. Ps. cii. 5.
The diseases of Egypt . . . shall cleave unto thee. Deut. xxviii. 60.
Sophistry cleaves close to and protects Sin's rotten trunk,
concealing its defects. Cowper.

2. To unite or be united closely in interest or affection; to adhere
with strong attachment.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife. Gen. ii. 24.
Cleave unto the Lord your God. Josh. xxiii. 8.

3. To fit; to be adapted; to assimilate. [Poetic.]
New honors come upon him, Like our strange garments, cleave not to
their mold But with the aid of use. Shak.

CLEAVE
Cleave, v. t. [imp. Cleft, Clave (, Clove (, (Obsolescent); p. p.
Cleft, Cleaved ( or Cloven (; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleaving.] Etym: [OE.
cleoven, cleven, AS. cleófan; akin to OS. klioban, D. klooven, G.
klieben, Icel. kljufa, Sw. klyfva, Dan. klöve and prob. to Gr.
glubere to peel. Cf. Cleft.]

1. To part or divide by force; to split or rive; to cut.
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain. Shak.

2. To pert or open naturally; to divide.
Every beast that parteth the hoof, and cleaveth the cleft into two
claws. Deut. xiv. 6.

CLEAVE
Cleave, v. i.

Defn: To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies;
as, the ground cleaves by frost.
The Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst. Zech. xiv. 4.

CLEAVELANDITE
Cleave"land*ite, n. Etym: [From Professor Parker Cleaveland.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure.

CLEAVER
Cleav"er, n.

Defn: One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher's
instrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces.

CLEAVERS
Cleav"ers, n. Etym: [From Cleave to stick.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set with
hooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with;
-- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc.

CLECHE
Clé`ché", a. Etym: [F. cléché.] (Her.)

Defn: Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the
color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first
bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. Compare
Voided.

CLECHY
Cle"chy, a.

Defn: See Cléché.

CLEDGE
Cledge, n. Etym: [Cf. Clay.] (Mining.)

Defn: The upper stratum of fuller's earth.

CLEDGY
Cledg"y, a.

Defn: Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil.
Halliwell.

CLEE
Clee, n.

Defn: A claw. [Holland.

CLEE
Clee, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The redshank.

CLEEK
Cleek, n.

1. A large hook or crook, as for a pot over a fire; specif., an iron-
headed golf club with a straight, narrow face and a long shaft.

2.  Act of cleeking; a clutch. [Scot.]

CLEEK
Cleek, v. t.  [pret. Claught; pret. & p. p. Cleeked; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cleeking.] [ME. cleken, clechen, to seize, clutch; perh. akin to E.
clutch.] [Scot & Dial. Eng.]

1.

Defn: To seize; clutch; snatch; catch; pluck.

2.  To catch or draw out with a cleek, as a fish; to hook.

3. To hook or link (together); hence, to marry.  Scott.

CLEF
Clef, n. Etym: [F. clef key, a key in music, fr. L. clavis key. See
Clavicle.] (Mus.)

Defn: A character used in musical notation to determine the position
and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.

Note: The clefs are three in number, called the C, F, and G clefs,
and are probably corruptions or modifications of these letters. They
indicate that the letters of absolute pitch belonging to the lines
upon which they are placed, are respectively C, F, and G. The F or
bass clef, and the G or treble clef, are fixed in their positions
upon the staff. The C clef may have three positions. It may be placed
upon the first or lower line of the staff, in which case it is called
soprano clef, upon the third line, in which case it called alto clef,
or upon the fourth line, in which case tenor clef. It rarely or never
is placed upon the second line, except in ancient music. See other
forms of C clef under C, 2. Alto clef, Bass clef. See under Alto,
Bass.

CLEFT
Cleft, imp. & p. p.

Defn: from Cleave.

CLEFT
Cleft, a.

1. Divided; split; partly divided or split.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Incised nearly to the midrob; as, a cleft leaf.

CLEFT
Cleft, n. Etym: [OE. clift; cf. Sw. klyft cave, den, Icel. kluft
cleft, Dan. klöft, G. kluft. See Cleave to split and cf. 2d Clift,
1st Clough.]

1. A space or opening made by splitting; a crack; a crevice; as, the
cleft of a rock. Is. ii. 21.

2. A piece made by splitting; as, a cleft of wood.

3. (Far.)

Defn: A disease in horses; a crack on the band of the pastern.
Branchial clefts. See under Branchial.

Syn.
 -- Crack; crevice; fissure; chink; cranny.

CLEFT-FOOTED
Cleft"-foot`ed, a.

Defn: Having a cloven foot.

CLEFTGRAFT
Cleft"graft`, v. t.

Defn: To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion.
Mortimer.

CLEG
Cleg, n. Etym: [Northern Eng. & Scot. gleg: cf. Gael. crethleag.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small breeze or horsefly. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson.

CLEISTOGAMIC; CLEISTOGAMOUS
Cleis`to*gam"ic, Cleis*tog"a*mous a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having, beside the usual flowers, other minute, closed flowers,
without petals or with minute petals; -- said of certain species of
plants which possess flowers of two or more kinds, the closed ones
being so constituted as to insure self-fertilization. Darwin.

CLEM
Clem, v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. clam to clog, or G. klemmen to pinch,
Icel. kl, E. clamp.]

Defn: To starve; to famish. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CLEMATIS
Clem"a*tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers,
having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- called
also virgin's bower.

CLEMENCE
Clem"ence, n.

Defn: Clemency. [Obs.] Spenser.

CLEMENCY
Clem"en*cy, n.; pl. Clemencies. Etym: [L. clementia, fr. clemens
mild, calm.]

1. Disposition to forgive and spare, as offenders; mildness of
temper; gentleness; tenderness; mercy.
Great clemency and tender zeal toward their subjects. Stowe.
They had applied for the royal clemency. Macaulay.

2. Mildness or softness of the elements; as, the clemency of the
season.

Syn.
 -- Mildness; tenderness; indulgence; lenity; mercy; gentleness;
compassion; kindness.

CLEMENT
Clem"ent, a. Etym: [L. clemens; -entis; cf. F. cl.]

Defn: Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate. Shak.
 -- Clem"ent*ly, adv.

CLEMENTINE
Clem"ent*ine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St.Clement of Rome and the
spurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and his
compilations of canon law.

CLENCH
Clench, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Clinch.

CLEOPATRA'S NEEDLE
Cle`o*pa"tra's nee"dle. [So named after Cleopatra, queen of Egypt.]

Defn: Either of two obelisks which were moved in ancient times from
Heliopolis to Alexandria, one of which is now on the Thames
Embankment in London, and the other in Central Park, in the City of
New York.

 Some writers consider that only the obelisk now in Central Park is
properly called Cleopatra's needle.

CLEPE
Clepe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cleped or; p. pr. & vb. n. Cleping. Cf.
Ycleped.] Etym: [AS. clepan, cleopian, clipian, clypian, to cry,
call.]

Defn: To call, or name. [Obs.]
That other son was cleped Cambalo. Chaucer.

CLEPE
Clepe, v. i.

Defn: To make appeal; to cry out. [Obs.]
Wandering in woe, and to the heavens on high Cleping for vengeance of
this treachery. Mir. for Mag.

CLEPSINE
Clep"si*ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of freshwater leeches, furnished with a proboscis. They
feed upon mollusks and worms.

CLEPSYDRA
Clep"sy*dra, n. Etym: [L. from Gr.

Defn: A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by the
graduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture.
See Illust. in Appendix.

CLEPTOMANIA
Clep`to*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Kleptomania.

CLERESTORY
Clere"sto`ry, n.

Defn: Same as Clearstory.

CLERGEON
Cler"geon, n. Etym: [F., dim. of clerc. See Clerk.]

Defn: A chorister boy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLERGIAL
Cler"gi*al, a.

Defn: Learned; erudite; clercial. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLERGICAL
Cler"gi*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned.
[Obs.] Milton.

CLERGY
Cler"gy, n. Etym: [OE. clergie, clergi, clerge, OF. clergie, F.
clergie (fr. clerc clerc, fr. L. clericus priest) confused with OF.
clergié, F. clergé, fr. LL. clericatus office of priest, monastic
life, fr. L. clericus priest, LL. scholar, clerc. Both the Old French
words meant clergy, in sense 1, the former having also sense 2. See
Clerk.]

1. The body of men set apart, by due ordination, to the service of
God, in the Christian church, in distinction from the laity; in
England, usually restricted to the ministers of the Established
Church. Hooker.

2. Learning; also, a learned profession. [Obs.]
Sophictry . . . rhetoric, and other cleargy. Guy of Warwick.
Put their second sons to learn some clergy. State Papers (1515).

3. The privilege or benefit of clergy.
If convicted of a clergyable felony, he is entitled equally to his
clergy after as before conviction. Blackstone.
Benefit of clergy (Eng., Law), the exemption of the persons of
clergymen from criminal process before a secular judge -- a privilege
which was extended to all who could read, such persons being, in the
eye of the law, clerici, or clerks. This privilege was abridged and
modified by various statutes, and finally abolished in the reign of
George IV. (1827).
 -- Regular clergy, Secular clergy See Regular, n., and Secular, a.

CLERGYABLE
Cler"gy*a*ble, a.

Defn: Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, a
clergyable felony. Blackstone.

CLERGYMAN
Cler"gy*man, n.; pl. Clergymen.

Defn: An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to peach the
gospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restricted
to a minister of the Established Church.

CLERIC
Cler"ic, n. Etym: [AS., fr. L. clericus. See Clerk.]

Defn: A clerk, a clergyman. [R.] Bp. Horsley.

CLERIC
Cler"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Clerical.

CLERICAL
Cler"ic*al, a. Etym: [LL. clericalis. See Clerk.]

1. Of or pertaining to the clergy; suitable for the clergy. "A
clerical education." Burke.

2. Of or relating to a clerk or copyist, or to writing. "Clerical
work." E. Everett. A clerical error, an error made in copying or
writing.

CLERICALISM
Cler"ic*al*ism, n.

Defn: An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order;
undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism.

CLERICITY
Cler*ic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being a clergyman.

CLERISY
Cler"i*sy, n. Etym: [LL. clericia. See Clergy.]

1. The literati, or well educated class.

2. The clergy, or their opinions, as opposed to the laity.

CLERK
Clerk (; in Eng. ; 277), n. Etym: [Either OF. clerc, fr. L. clericus
a priest, or AS. clerc, cleric, clerk, priest, fr. L. clericus, fr.
Gr. Clergy.]

1. A clergyman or ecclesiastic. [Obs.]
All persons were styled clerks that served in the church of Christ.
Ayliffe.

2. A man who could read; a scholar; a learned person; a man of
letters. [Obs.] "Every one that could read . . . being accounted a
clerk." Blackstone.
He was no great clerk, but he was perfectly well versed in the
interests of Europe. Burke.

3. A parish officer, being a layman who leads in reading the
responses of the Episcopal church service, and otherwise assists in
it. [Eng.] Hook.
And like unlettered clerk still cry "Amen". Shak.

4. One employed to keep records or accounts; a scribe; an accountant;
as, the clerk of a court; a town clerk.
The clerk of the crown . . . withdrew the bill. Strype.

Note: In some cases, clerk is synonymous with secretary. A clerk is
always an officer subordinate to a higher officer, board,
corporation, or person; whereas a secretary may be either a
subordinate or the head of an office or department.

5. An assistant in a shop or store. [U. S.]

CLERK-ALE
Clerk"-ale` ( in Eng. , n.

Defn: A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk. [Eng.] T. Warton.

CLERKLESS
Clerk"less, a.

Defn: Unlearned. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse.

CLERKLIKE
Clerk"like`, a.

Defn: Scholarlike. [Obs.] Shak.

CLERKLINESS
Clerk"li*ness, n.

Defn: Scholarship. [Obs.]

CLERKLY
Clerk"ly, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a clerk. Cranmer.

CLERKLY
Clerk"ly, adv.

Defn: In a scholarly manner. [Obs.] Shak.

CLERKSHIP
Clerk"ship, n.

Defn: State, quality, or business of a clerk.

CLEROMANCY
Cler"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy; cf. F. cléromancie.]

Defn: A divination by throwing dice or casting lots.

CLERONOMY
Cle*ron"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Inheritance; heritage.

CLERSTORY
Cler"sto`ry, n.

Defn: See Clearstory.

CLEVER
Clev"er, a. Etym: [Origin uncertain. Cf. OE. cliver eager, AS. clyfer
(in comp.) cloven; or clifer a claw, perh. connected with E. cleave
to divide, split, the meaning of E. clever perh. coming from the idea
of grasping, seizing (with the mind).]

1. Possessing quickness of intellect, skill, dexterity, talent, or
adroitness; expert.
Though there were many clever men in England during the latter half
of the seventeenth century, there were only two great creative minds.
Macaulay.
Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever. C. Kingsley.

2. Showing skill or adroitness in the doer or former; as, a clever
speech; a clever trick. Byron.

3. Having fitness, propriety, or suitableness.
"T would sound more clever To me and to my heirs forever. Swift.

4. Well-shaped; handsome. "The girl was a tight, clever wench as any
was." Arbuthnot.

5. Good-natured; obliging. [U. S.]

Syn.
 -- See Smart.

CLEVERISH
Clev"er*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat clever. [R.]

CLEVERLY
Clev"er*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clever manner.
Never was man so clever absurd. C. Smart.

CLEVERNESS
Clev"er*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.

Syn.
 -- See Ingenuity.

CLEVIS
Clev"is, n. Etym: [Cf. Cleave to adhere, Clavel.]

Defn: A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two
ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a
plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.;
-- called also clavel, clevy.

CLEW; CLUE
Clew, Clue, n. Etym: [OE. clewe, clowe, clue, AS. cleowen, cliwen,
clywe ball of thread; akin to D. kluwen, OHG. chliwa, chliuwa, G.
dim. kleuel, knäuel, and perch. to L. gluma hull, husk, Skr. glaus
sort of ball or tumor. Perch. akin to E. claw. *26. Cf. Knawel.]

1. A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself.
Untwisting his deceitful clew. Spenser.

2. That which guides or directs one in anything of a doubtful or
intricate nature; that which gives a hint in the solution of a
mystery.
The clew, without which it was perilous to enter the vast and
intricate maze of countinental politics, was in his hands. Macaulay.

3. (Naut.) (a.)

Defn: A lower corner of a square sail, or the after corner of a fore-
and-aft sail. (b.)

Defn: A loop and thimbles at the corner of a sail. (c.)

Defn: A combination of lines or nettles by which a hammock is
suspended. Clew garnet (Naut.), one of the ropes by which the clews
of the courses of square-rigged vessels are drawn up to the lower
yards.
 -- Clew line (Naut.), a rope by which a clew of one of the smaller
square sails, as topsail, topgallant sail, or royal, is run up to its
yard.
 -- Clew-line block (Naut.), The block through which a clew line
reeves. See Illust. of Block.

CLEW
Clew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. & vb. n. Clewing.] Etym: [Cf. D. kluwenen.
See Clew, n.]

1. To direct; to guide, as by a thread. [Obs.]
Direct and clew me out the way to happiness. Beau. && Fl.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets,
clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to the
yard. To clew down (Naut.), to force (a yard) down by hauling on the
clew lines.
 -- To clew up (Naut.), to draw (a sail) up to the yard, as for
furling.

CLICHE
Cli`ché", n. Etym: [F. cliché, from clicher to stereotype.]

Defn: A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or
lettering, in relief. Cliché casting, a mode of obtaining an
impression from a die or woodcut, or the like, by striking it
suddenly upon metal which has been fused and is just becoming solid;
also, the casting so obtained.

CLICK
Click, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clicked; p. pr. & vb. n. Clicking.] Etym:
[Prob. an onomatopoetic word: cf. OF. cliquier. See Clack, and cf.
Clink, Clique.]

Defn: To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises),
as by gentle striking; to tick.
The varnished clock that clicked behind the door. Goldsmith.

CLICK
Click, v. t.

1. To more with the sound of a click.
She clicked back the bolt which held the window sash. Thackeray.

2. To cause to make a clicking noise, as by striking together, or
against something.
[Jove] clicked all his marble thumbs. Ben Jonson.
When merry milkmaids click the latch. Tennyson.

CLICK
Click, n.

1. A slight sharp noise, such as is made by the cocking of a pistol.

2. A kind of articulation used by the natives of Southern Africa,
consisting in a sudden withdrawal of the end or some other portion of
the tongue from a part of the mouth with which it is in contact,
whereby a sharp, clicking sound is produced. The sounds are four in
number, and are called cerebral, palatal, dental, and lateral clicks
or clucks, the latter being the noise ordinarily used in urging a
horse forward.

CLICK
Click, v. t. Etym: [OE. kleken, clichen. Cf. Clutch.]

Defn: To snatch. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLICK
Click, n. Etym: [Cf. 4th Click, and OF. clique latch.]

1. A detent, pawl, or ratchet, as that which catches the cogs of a
ratchet wheel to prevent backward motion. See Illust. of Ratched
wheel.

2. The latch of a door. [Prov. Eng.]

CLICK BEETLE
Click" bee"tle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Elater.

CLICKER
Click"er, n.

1. One who stands before a shop door to invite people to buy. [Low,
Eng.]

2. (Print.)

Defn: One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.

CLICKET
Click"et, n. Etym: [OF. cliquet the latch of a door. See 5th Click.]

1. The knocker of a door. [Prov. Eng.]

2. A latch key. [Eng.] Chaucer.

CLICKY
Click"y, a.

Defn: Resembling a click; abounding in clicks. "Their strange clicky
language." The Century.

CLIDASTES
Cli*das"tes, n. Etym: [NL., prob. from Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of exinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus.
See Illust. in Appendix.

CLIENCY
Cli"en*cy, n.

Defn: State of being a client.

CLIENT
Cli"ent, n. Etym: [L. cliens, -emtis, for cluens, one who hears (in
relation to his protector), a client, fr. L. cluere to be named or
called; akin to Gr. çry, and E. loud: cf. F. client. See Loud.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man of
distinction and influence, who was called his patron.

2. A dependent; one under the protection of another.
I do think they are your friends and clients, And fearful to disturb
you. B. Jonson.

3. (Law)

Defn: One who consults a legal adviser, or submits his cause to his
management.

CLIENTAGE
Cli"ent*age, n.

1. State of being client.

2. A body of clients. E. Everett.

CLIENTAL
Cli*en"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a client.
A dependent and cliental relation. Burke.
I sat down in the cliental chair. Dickens.

CLIENTED
Cli"ent*ed, a.

Defn: Supplied with clients. [R.]
The least cliented pettifiggers. R. Carew.

CLIENTELAGE
Cli*en"te*lage, n.

Defn: See Clientele, n., 2.

CLIENTELE
Cli`en*tele" ( or ), n. Etym: [L. clientela: cf. F. clientèle.]

1. The condition or position of a client; clientship. [Obs.] Bp.
Hall.

2. The clients or dependents of a nobleman of patron.

3. The persons who make habitual use of the services of another
person; one's clients, collectively; as, the clientele of a lawyer,
doctor, notary, etc.

CLIENTSHIP
Cli"ent*ship, n.

Defn: Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of a
patron. Dryden.

CLIFF
Cliff, n. Etym: [AS. clif, cloef; akin to OS. klif, D. klif, klip,
Icel. klif, Dan. & G. klippe, Sw. klippa; perh. orig. a climbing
place. See Climb.]

Defn: A high, steep rock; a precipice. Cliff swallow (Zoöl.), a North
American swallow (Petrochelidon lunifrons), which builds its nest
against cliffs; the eaves swallow.

CLIFF
Cliff, n. (Mus.)

Defn: See Clef. [Obs.]

CLIFF LIMESTONE
Cliff" lime"stone`. (Geol.)

Defn: A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west,
presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed to
be of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partly
Devonian.

CLIFFY
Cliff"y, a.

Defn: Having cliffs; broken; craggy.

CLIFT
Clift, n. Etym: [See 1st Cliff, n.]

Defn: A cliff. [Obs.]
That gainst the craggy clifts did loudly roar. Spenser.

CLIFT
Clift, n. Etym: [See Cleft, n.]

1. A cleft of crack; a narrow opening. [Obs.]

2. The fork of the legs; the crotch. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLIFTED
Clift"ed, a. Etym: [From Clift a cleft.]

Defn: Broken; fissured.
Climb the Andeclifted side. Grainger.

CLIMACTER
Cli*mac"ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. climactère. See Climax.]

Defn: See Climacteric, n.

CLIMACTERIC
Cli*mac"ter*ic ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [L. climactericus, Gr.
Climacter.]

Defn: Relating to a climacteric; critical.

CLIMACTERIC
Cli*mac"ter*ic, n.

1. A period in human life in which some great change is supposed to
take place in the constitution. The critical periods are thought by
some to be the years produced by multiplying 7 into the odd numbers
3, 5, 7, and 9; to which others add the 81st year.

2. Any critical period.
It is your lot, as it was mine, to live during one of the grand
climacterics of the world. Southey.
Grand or Great climacteric, the sixty-third year of human life.
I should hardly yield my rigid fibers to be regenerated by them; nor
begin, in my grand climacteric, to squall in their new accents, or to
stammer, in my second cradle, the elemental sounds of their barbarous
metaphysics. Burke.

CLIMACTERICAL
Clim`ac*ter"ic*al, a. & n.

Defn: See Climacteric. Evelyn.

CLIMACTIC
Cli*mac"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, a
climax, or ascending series.

A fourth kind of parallelism . . . is still sufficiently marked to be
noticed by the side of those described by Lowth, viz., climactic
parallelism (sometimes called "ascending rhythm").
S. R. Driver.

CLIMATAL
Cli"ma*tal, a.

Defn: Climatic. Dunglison.

CLIMATARCHIC
Cli`ma*tar"chic, a. Etym: [Climate + Gr.

Defn: Presiding over, or regulating, climates.

CLIMATE
Cli"mate, n. Etym: [F. climat, L. clima, -atis, fr. Gr. lean, v. i.
See Lean, v. i., and cf. Clime.]

1. (Anc. Geog.)

Defn: One of thirty regions or zones, parallel to the equator, into
which the surface of the earth from the equator to the pole was
divided, according to the successive increase of the length of the
midsummer day.

2. The condition of a place in relation to various phenomena of the
atmosphere, as temperature, moisture, etc., especially as they affect
animal or vegetable life.

CLIMATE
Cli"mate, v. i.

Defn: To dwell. [Poetic] Shak.

CLIMATIC
Cli*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, a
climate.

CLIMATICAL
Cli*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Climatic.

CLIMATIZE
Cli"ma*tize, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Climatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Climatizing.]

Defn: To acclimate or become acclimated.

CLIMATOGRAPHY
Cli`ma*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Climate + -graphy.]

Defn: A description of climates.

CLIMATOLOGICAL
Cli`ma*to*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to climatology.

CLIMATOLOGIST
Cli`ma*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in, or who studies, climatology.

CLIMATOLOGY
Cli`ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Climate + -logy: cf. F. climatologie.]

Defn: The science which treats of climates and investigates their
phenomena and causes. Brande & C.

CLIMATURE
Cli"ma*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. climature.]

Defn: A climate. [Obs.] Shak.

CLIMAX
Cli"max, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Ladder, Lean, v. i.]

1. Upward movement; steady increase; gradation; ascent. Glanvill.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are so
arranged that each sicceeding one rise
"Tribulation worketh patience, patience experience, and experience
hope" -- a happy climax. J. D. Forbes.

3. The highest point; the greatest degree.
We must look higher for the climax of earthly good. I. Taylor.
To cap the climax, to surpass everything, as in excellence or in
absurdity. [Colloq.]

CLIMB
Climb, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Climbed, Obs. or Vulgar Clomb (; p. pr. &
vb. n. Climbing.] Etym: [AS. climban; akin to OHG. chlimban, G. & D.
klimmen, Icel. klifa, and E. cleave to adhere.]

1. To ascend or mount laboriously, esp. by use of the hands and feet.

2. To ascend as if with effort; to rise to a higher point.
Black vapors climb aloft, and cloud the day. Dryden.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or by
attaching itself by tendrills, rootlets, etc., to a support or
upright surface.

CLIMB
Climb, v. t.

Defn: To ascend, as by means of the hands and feet, or laboriously or
slowly; to mount.

CLIMB
Climb, n.

Defn: The act of one who climbs; ascent by climbing. Warburton.

CLIMBABLE
Climb"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being climbed.

CLIMBER
Climb"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, climbs:
(a) (Bot.) A plant that climbs.
(b) (Zoöl.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.

CLIMBER
Climb"er, v. i. Etym: [From Climb; cf. Clamber.]

Defn: To climb; to mount with effort; to clamber. [Obs.] Tusser.

CLIMBING
Climb"ing,

Defn: p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb. Climbing fern. See under Fern.
 -- Climbing perch. (Zoöl.) See Anabas, and Labyrinthici.

CLIME
Clime, n. Etym: [L. clima. See Climate.]

Defn: A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.
Turn we to sutvey, Where rougher climes a nobler race display.
Goldsmith.

CLINANTHIUM
Cli*nan"thi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- also
called clinium.

CLINCH
Clinch (; 224), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clinched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clinching.] Etym: [OE. clenchen, prop. causative of clink to cause to
clink, to strike; cf. D. klinken to tinkle, rivet. See Clink.]

1. To hold firmly; to hold fast by grasping or embracing tightly.
"Clinch the pointed spear." Dryden.

2. To set closely together; to close tightly; as, to clinch the teeth
or the first. Swift.

3. The bend or turn over the point of (something that has been driven
trough an object), so that it will hold fast; as, to clinch a nail.

4. To make conclusive; to confirm; to establish; as, to clinch an
argument. South.

CLINCH
Clinch, v. i.

Defn: To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp one
another.

CLINCH
Clinch, n.

1. The act or process of holding fast; that which serves to hold
fast; a grip; a grasp; a clamp; a holdfast; as, to get a good clinch
of an antagonist, or of a weapon; to secure anything by a clinch.

2. A pun. Pope.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A hitch or bend by which a rope is made fast to the ring of an
anchor, or the breeching of a ship's gun to the ringbolts.

CLINCHER
Clinch"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, clinches; that which holds fast. Pope.

2. That which ends a dispute or controversy; a decisive argument.

CLINCHER-BUILT
Clinch"er-built, a.

Defn: See Clinker-built.

CLING
Cling, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clung, Clong (Obs.); p. pr. & vb. n.
Clinging.] Etym: [AS. clingan to adhere, to wither; akin to Dan.
klynge to cluster, crowd. Cf. Clump.]

Defn: To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by
twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its
support; -- usually followed by to or together.
And what hath life for thee That thou shouldst cling to it thus Mrs.
Hemans.

CLING
Cling, v. t.

1. To cause to adhere to, especially by twining round or embraching.
[Obs.]
I clung legs as close to his side as I could. Swift.

2. To make to dry up or wither. [Obs.]
If thou speak'st false, Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
Till famine cling thee. Shak.

CLING
Cling, n.

Defn: Adherence; attachment; devotion. [R.]
A more tenacious cling to worldly respects. Milton.

CLINGSTONE
Cling"stone`, a.

Defn: Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in some
kinds of peaches.
 -- n.

Defn: A fruit, as a peach, whose flesh adheres to the stone.

CLINGY
Cling"y, a.

Defn: Apt to cling; adhesive. [R.]

CLINIC
Clin"ic, n. Etym: [See Clinical.]

1. One confined to the bed by sickness.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who receives baptism on a sick bed. [Obs.] Hook.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A school, or a session of a school or class, in which medicine
or surgery is taught by the examination and treatment of patients in
the presence of the pupils.

CLINICAL; CLINIC
Clin"ic*al, Clin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. clinique. See Lean, v. i.]

1. Of or pertaining to a bed, especially, a sick bed.

2. Of or pertaining to a clinic, or to the study of disease in the
living subject. Clinical baptism, baptism administered to a person on
a sick bed.
 -- Clinical instruction, instruction by means of clinics.
 -- Clinical lecture (Med.), a discourse upon medical topics
illustrared by the exhibition and examination of living patients.
 -- Clinical medicine, Clinical surgery, that part of medicine or
surgery which is occupied with the investigation of disease in the
living subject.

CLINICALLY
Clin"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clinical manner.

CLINIQUE
Cli*nique", n. Etym: [F.] (Med.)

Defn: A clinic.

CLINIUM
Clin"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: See Clinanthium.

CLINK
Clink, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Clinking.] Etym:
[OE. clinken; akin to G. klingen, D. klinken, SW. klinga, Dan.
klinge; prob. of imitative origin. Cf. Clank, Clench, Click, v. i.]

Defn: To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by
striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together.
And let me the canakin clink. Shak.

CLINK
Clink, v. i.

1. To give out a slight, sharp, thinkling sound. "The clinking
latch." Tennyson.

2. To rhyme. [Humorous]. Cowper.

CLINK
Clink, n.

Defn: A slight, sharp, tinkling sound, made by the collision of
sonorous bodies. "Clink and fall of swords." Shak.

CLINKANT
Clin"kant, a.

Defn: See Clnquant.

CLINKER
Clink"er, n. Etym: [From clink; cf. D. clinker a brick which is so
hard that it makes a sonorous sound, from clinken to clink. Cf.
Clinkstone.]

1. A mass composed of several bricks run together by the action of
the fire in the kiln.

2. Scoria or vitrified incombustible matter, formed in a grate or
furnace where anthracite coal in used; vitrified or burnt matter
ejected from a volcano; slag.

3. A scale of oxide of iron, formed in forging.

4. A kind of brick. See Dutch klinker, under Dutch.

CLINKER-BUILT
Clink"er-built, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the lower
edge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it like
clapboards on a house. See Lapstreak.

CLINKSTONE
Clink"stone` (; 110), n. Etym: [Clink + stone; -- from its
sonorousness.] (Min.)

Defn: An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar in
structure, and clinking under the hammer. See Phonolite.

CLINODIAGONAL
Cli`no*di*ag"o*nal, n. Etym: [Gr. diagonal.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which
makes an oblique angle witch the vertical axis. See Crystallization.
 -- a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or the direction of, the clinidiagonal.

CLINODOME
Cli"no*dome`, n. Etym: [Gr. dome.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: See under Dome.

CLINOGRAPHIC
Cli"no*graph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. + -graph.]

Defn: Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which the
rays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane of
projection.

CLINOID
Cli"noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner side
of the sphenoid bone.

CLINOMETER
Cli*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Geol.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr the
slope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level. Dana.

CLINOMETRIC
Clin`o*met"ric, a.

1. Pertaining to, or ascertained by, the clinometer.

2. Pertaining to the oblique crystalline forms, or to solids which
have oblique angles between the axes; as, the clinometric systems.

CLINOMETRY
Cli*nom"e*try, n. (geol.)

Defn: That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.

CLINOPINACOID
Cli`no*pin"a*coid, n. Etym: [Gr. pinacoid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which is
parallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal)
axes.

CLINORHOMBIC
Cli`no*rhom"bic, a. Etym: [Gr. rhombic: cf. F. clinorhombique.]
(Crystallog.)

Defn: Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to a
rhombic base; monoclinic.

CLINOSTAT
Cli"no*stat, n. [Gr.  to incline +  to make to stand.] (Bot.)

Defn: An apparatus consisting of a slowly revolving disk, usually
regulated by  clockwork, by means of wich the action of external
agents, as light and gravity, on growing plants may be regulated or
eliminated.

CLINQUANT
Clin"quant, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery. [Obs.]
Shak.

CLINQUANT
Clin"quant, n.

Defn: Tinse;l; Dutch gold.

CLIO
Cli"o, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Muse who presided over history.

CLIONE
Cli*o"ne, n.

Defn: A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea),
abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of the
Greenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio.

CLIP
Clip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clipped (; p. pr. & vb. n. Clipping.] Etym:
[OE. cluppen, clippen, to embrace, AS. clyran to embrace, clasp; cf.
OHG. kluft tongs, shears, Icel, klypa to pinch, squeeze, also OE.
clippen to cut, shear, Dan. klippe to clip, cut, SW. & Icel. klippa.]

1. To embrace, hence; to encompass.
O . . . that Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about, Would bear thee
from the knowledge of thyself. Shak.

2. To cut off; as with shears or scissors; as, to clip the hair; to
clip coin.
Sentenced to have his ears clipped. Macaulay.

3. To curtail; to cut short.
All my reports go with the modest truth; No more nor clipped, but so.
Shak.
In London they clip their words after one manner about the court,
another in the city, and a third in the suburbs. Swift.

CLIP
Clip, v. i.

Defn: To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it.
Straight flies as chek, and clips it down the wind. Dryden.

CLIP
Clip, n.

1. An embrace. Sir P. Sidney.

2. A cutting; a shearing.

3. The product of a single shearing of sheep; a season's crop of
wool.

4. A clasp or holder for letters, papers, etc.

5. An embracing strap for holding parts together; the iron strap,
with loop, at the ends of a whiffletree. Knight.

6. (Far.)

Defn: A projecting flange on the upper edge of a horseshoe, turned up
so as to embrace the lower part of the hoof; -- called also toe clip
and beak. Youatt.

7. A blow or stroke with the hand; as, he hit him a clip. [Colloq. U.
S.]

CLIPPER
Clip"per, n.

1. One who clips; specifically, one who clips off the edges of coin.
The value is pared off from it into the clipper's pocket. Locke.

2. A machine for clipping hair, esp. the hair of horses.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.
 -- Clip"per-built` (, a.

Note: The name was first borne by "Baltimore clippers" famous as
privateers in the early wars of the United States.

CLIPPING
Clip"ping, n.

1. The act of embracing. [Obs.]

2. The act of cutting off, curtailing, or diminishing; the practice
of clipping the edges of coins.
clipping by Englishmen is robbing the honest man who receives clipped
money. Locke.

3. That which is clipped off or out of something; a piece separated
by clipping; as, newspaper clippings.

CLIQUE
Clique, n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. cliquer to click. See Click, v. i.]

Defn: A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or
for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a
bad sense.

CLIQUE
Clique, v. i.

Defn: To To associate together in a clannish way; to act with others
secretly to gain a desired end; to plot; -- used with together.

CLIQUISH
Cli"quish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques;
exclusive in spirit.
 -- Cli"*quish*ness, n.

CLIQUISM
Cli"quism, n.

Defn: The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques.

CLITELLUS
Cli*tel"lus, n. Etym: [NL., prob. fr. L. clitellae a packsadle.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adult
earthworm, consisting of several united segments modified for
reproductive purposes.

CLITORIS
Cli"to*ris ( or ), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. labia pudendi.] (Anat.)

Defn: A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to the
penis in the male.

CLIVERS
Cliv"ers ( or ), n.

Defn: See Cleavers.

CLIVITY
Cliv"i*ty, n.; pl. Clivities. Etym: [L. clivus hill.]

Defn: Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient. [R.]

CLOACA
Clo"a"ca, n.; pl. Cloacæ. Etym: [L.]

1. A sewer; as, the Cloaca Maxima of Rome.

2. A privy.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, and
generative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and many
fishes.

CLOACAL
Clo*a"cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cloaca.

CLOAK
Cloak (; 110), n. Etym: [Of. cloque cloak (from the bell-like shape),
bell, F. cloche bell; perh. of Celtik origin and the same word as E.
clock. See 1st Clock.]

1. A loose outer garment, extending from the neck downwards, and
commonly without sleeves. It is longer than a cape, and is worn both
by men and by women.

2. That which conceals; a disguise or pretext; an excuse; a fair
pretense; a mask; a cover.
No man is esteemed any ways considerable for policy who wears
religion otherwise than as a cloak. South.
Cloak bag, a bag in which a cloak or other clothes are carried; a
portmanteau. Shak.

CLOAK
Cloak, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cloaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Cloaking.]

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal.
Now glooming sadly, so to cloak her matter. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- See Palliate.

CLOAKEDLY
Cloak"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a concealed manner.

CLOAKING
Cloak"ing, n.

1. The act of covering with a cloak; the act of concealing anything.
To take heed of their dissembings and cloakings. Strype.

2. The material of which of which cloaks are made.

CLOAKROOM
Cloak"room`, n.

Defn: A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks,
overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.

CLOCHE
Cloche, n. [F., prop., bell.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: An apparatus used in controlling certain kinds of aëroplanes,
and consisting principally of a steering column mounted with a
universal joint at the base, which is bellshaped and has attached to
it the cables for controlling the wing-warping devices, elevator
planes, and the like.

CLOCK
Clock, n. Etym: [AS. clucge bell; akin to D. klok clock, bell, G.
glocke, Dan. klokke, Sw. klocka, Icel. klukka bell, LL. clocca, cloca
(whence F. cloche); al perh. of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. & Gael. clog
bell, clock, W. cloch bell. Cf. Cloak.]

1. A machine for measuring time, indicating the hour and other
divisions by means of hands moving on a dial plate. Its works are
moved by a weight or a spring, and it is often so constructed as to
tell the hour by the stroke of a hammer on a bell. It is not adapted,
like the watch, to be carried on the person.

2. A watcg, esp. one that strikes. [Obs.] Walton.

3. The striking of a clock. [Obs.] Dryden.

4. A figure or figured work on the ankle or side of a stocking.
Swift.

Note: The phrases what o'clock it is nine o'clock, etc., are
contracted from what of the clock it is nine of the clock, etc. Alarm
clock. See under Alarm.
 -- Astronomical clock. (a) A clock of superior construction, with a
compensating pendulum, etc., to measure time with great accuracy, for
use in astronomical observatories; -- called a regulator when used by
watchmakers as a standard for regulating timepieces. (b) A clock with
mechanism for indicating certain astronomical phenomena, as the
phases of the moon, position of the sun in the ecliptic, equation of
time, etc.
 -- Electric clock. (a) A clock moved or regulated by electricity or
electro-magnetism. (b) A clock connected with an electro-magnetic
recording apparatus.
 -- Ship's clock (Naut.), a clock arranged to strike from one to
eight strokes, at half hourly intervals, marking the divisions of the
ship's watches.
 -- Sidereal clock, an astronomical clock regulated to keep sidereal
time.

CLOCK
Clock, v. t.

Defn: To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking.

CLOCK
Clock, v. t. & i.

Defn: To call, as a hen. See Cluck. [R.]

CLOCK
Clock, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large beetle, esp. the European dung beetle (Scarabæus
stercorarius).

CLOCKLIKE
Clock"like`, a.

Defn: Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical.
Their services are clocklike, to be set Blackward and vorward at
their lord's command. B. Jonson.

CLOCKWISE
Clock"wise`, a. & adv.

Defn: Like the motion of the hands of a clock; -- said of that
direction of a rotation about an axis, or about a point in a plane,
which is ordinarily reckoned negative.

CLOCKWORK
Clock"work`, n.

Defn: The machinery of a clock, or machinary resembling that of a
clock; machinery which produced regularity of movement.

CLOD
Clod, n. Etym: [OE. clodde, latter form of clot. See Clot.]

1. A lump or mass, especially of earth, turf, or clay. "Clods of a
slimy substance." Carew. "Clods of iron and brass." Milton.
"Clods of blood." E. Fairfax.
The earth that casteth up from the plow a great clod, is not so good
as that which casteth up a smaller clod. Bacon.

2. The ground; the earth; a spot of earth or turf.
The clod Where once their sultan's horse has trod. Swift.

3. That which is earthy and of little relative value, as the body of
man in comparison with the soul.
This cold clod of clay which we carry about with us. T. Burnet.

4. A dull, gross, stupid fellow; a dolt Dryden.

5. A pert of the shoulder of a beef creature, or of the neck piece
near the shoulder. See Illust. of Beef.

CLOD
Clod, v.i

Defn: To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; to
clot; as, clodded gore. See Clot.
Clodded in lumps of clay. G. Fletcher.

CLOD
Clod, v. t.

1. To pelt with clods. Jonson.

2. To throw violently; to hurl. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

CLODDISH
Clod"dish, a.

Defn: Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish. Hawthorne.
 -- Clod"dish*ness, n.

CLODDY
Clod"dy, a.

Defn: Consisting of clods; full of clods.

CLODHOPPER
Clod"hop`per, n.

Defn: A rude, rustic fellow.

CLODHOPPING
Clod"hop`ping, a.

Defn: Boorish; rude. C. Bronté.

CLODPATE
Clod"pate`, n.

Defn: A blockhead; a dolt.

CLODPATED
Clod"pat`ed, a.

Defn: Stupid; dull; doltish.

CLODPOLL
Clod"poll`, n. Etym: [Clod + poll head.]

Defn: A stupid fellow; a dolt. [Written also clodpole.] Shak.

CLOFF
Cloff, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred
weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a
general sense, of small deductions from the original weight. [Written
also clough.] McCulloch.

CLOG
Clog, n. Etym: [OE. clogge clog, Scot. clag, n., a clot, v., to to
obstruct, cover with mud or anything adhesive; prob. of the same
origin as E. clay.]

1. That which hinders or impedes motion; hence, an encumbrance,
restraint, or impediment, of any kind.
All the ancient, honest, juridical principles and institutions of
England are so many clogs to check and retard the headlong course of
violence and opression. Burke.

2. A weight, as a log or block of wood, attached to a man or an
animal to hinder motion.
As a dog . . . but chance breaks loose, And quits his clog. Hudibras.
A clog of lead was round my feet. Tennyson.

3. A shoe, or sandal, intended to protect the feet from wet, or to
increase the apparent stature, and having, therefore, a very thick
sole. Cf. Chopine.
In France the peasantry goes barefoot; and the middle sort . . .
makes use of wooden clogs. Harvey.
Clog almanac, a primitive kind of almanac or calendar, formerly used
in England, made by cutting notches and figures on the four edges of
a clog, or square piece of wood, brass, or bone; -- called also a
Runic staff, from the Runic characters used in the numerical
notation.
 -- Clog dance, a dance performed by a person wearing clogs, or
thick-soled shoes.
 -- Clog dancer.

CLOG
Clog, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clogged; p. pr. & vb. n. Clogging.]

1. To encumber or load, especially with something that impedes
motion; to hamper.
The winds of birds were clogged with ace and snow. Dryden.

2. To obstruct so as to hinder motion in or through; to choke up; as,
to clog a tube or a channel.

3. To burden; to trammel; to embarrass; to perplex.
The commodities are clogged with impositions. Addison.
You 'll rue the time That clogs me with this answer. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Impede; hinder; obstruct; embarrass; burden; restrain; restrict.

CLOG
Clog, v. i.

1. To become clogged; to become loaded or encumbered, as with
extraneous matter.
In working through the bone, the teeth of the saw will begin to clog.
S. Sharp.

2. To coalesce or adhere; to unite in a mass.
Move it sometimes with a broom, that the seeds clog not together.
Evelyn.

CLOGGINESS
Clog"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being clogged.

CLOGGING
Clog"ging, n.

Defn: Anything which clogs. Dr. H. More.

CLOGGY
Clog"gy, a.

Defn: Clogging, or having power to clog.

CLOISONNE
Cloi`son*né, a. Etym: [F., partitioned, fr. cloison a partition.]

Defn: Inlaid between partitions: -- said of enamel when the lines
which divide the different patches of fields are composed of a kind
of metal wire secured to the ground; as distinguished from champlevé
enamel, in which the ground is engraved or scooped out to receive the
enamel. S. Wells Williams.

CLOISTER
Clois"ter, n. Etym: [OF. cloistre, F. cloître, L. claustrum, pl.
claustra, bar, bolt, bounds, fr. claudere, clausum, to close. See
Close, v. t., and cf. Claustral.]

1. An inclosed place. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A covered passage or ambulatory on one side of a court; (pl.) the
series of such passages on the different sides of any court, esp.
that of a monastery or a college.
But let my due feet never fail To walk the studious cloister's pale.
Milton.

3. A monastic establishment; a place for retirement from the world
for religious duties.
Fitter for a cloister than a crown. Daniel.
Cloister garth (Arch.), the garden or open part of a court inclosed
by the cloisters.

Syn.
 -- Cloister, Monastery, Nunnery, Convent, Abbey, Priory. Cloister
and convent are generic terms, and denote a place of seclusion from
the world for persons who devote their lives to religious purposes.
They differ is that the distinctive idea of cloister is that of
seclusion from the world, that of convent, community of living. Both
terms denote houses for recluses of either sex. A cloister or convent
for monks is called a monastery; for nuns, a nunnery. An abbey is a
convent or monastic institution governed by an abbot or an abbess; a
priory is one governed by a prior or a prioress, and is usually
affiliated to an abbey.

CLOISTER
Clois"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cloistered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cloistering.]

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cloister; to seclude from the world;
to immure.
None among them are throught worthy to be styled religious persons
but those that cloister themselves up in a monastery. Sharp.

CLOISTERAL
Clois"ter*al, a.

Defn: Cloistral. [Obs.] I. Walton.

CLOISTERED
Clois"tered, a.

1. Dwelling in cloisters; solitary. "Cloistered friars and vestal
nuns." Hudibras.
In cloistered state let selfish sages dwell, Proud that their heart
is narrow as their cell. Shenstone.

2. Furnished with cloisters. Sir H. Wotton.

CLOISTERER
Clois"ter*er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. cloistier.]

Defn: One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse.

CLOISTRAL
Clois"tral, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse.
[Written also cloisteral.]
Best become a cloistral exercise. Daniel.

CLOISTRESS
Clois"tress, n.

Defn: A nun. [R.] Shak.

CLOKE
Cloke, n. & v.

Defn: See Cloak. [Obs.]

CLOMB; CLOMBEN
Clomb, Clomb"en,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Climb (for climbed). [Obs.]
The sonne, he sayde, is clomben up on hevene. Chaucer.

CLOMP
Clomp, n.

Defn: See Clamp.

CLONG
Clong,

Defn: imp. of Cling. [Obs.]

CLONIC
Clon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. clonique.] (Med.)

Defn: Having an irregular, convulsive motion. Dunglison. Clonic
spasm. (Med.) See under Spasm.

CLONUS
Clo"nus, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  violent, confused motion.] (Med.)

Defn: A series of muscular contractions due to sudden stretching of
the muscle, -- a sign of certain neuropathies.

CLOOM
Cloom, v. t. Etym: [A variant of clam to clog.]

Defn: To close with glutinous matter. [Obs.] Mortimer.

CLOOP
Cloop, n. Etym: [An onomatopoeia.]

Defn: The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle.
"The cloop of a cork wrenched from a bottle." Thackeray.

CLOOT
Cloot, n. [Cf. G. dial. kleuzen to split.] (Scot. & Dial. Eng.)

1. One of the divisions of a cleft hoof, as in the ox; also, the
whole hoof.

2.  The Devil; Clootie; -- usually in the pl.  Burns.

CLOOTIE
Cloot"ie, n. (Scot. & Dial. Eng.)

1.

Defn: A little hoof.

2.  The Devil. "Satan, Nick, or Clootie."  Burns.

CLOSE
Close, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Closed; p. pr. & vb. n. Closing.] Etym:
[From OF. & F. clos, p. p. of clore to close, fr. L. claudere; akin
to G. schliessen to shut, and to E. clot, cloister, clavicle,
conclude, sluice. Cf. Clause, n.]

1. To stop, or fill up, as an opening; to shut; as, to close the
eyes; to close a door.

2. To bring together the parts of; to consolidate; as, to close the
ranks of an army; -- often used with up.

3. To bring to an end or period; to conclude; to complete; to finish;
to end; to consummate; as, to close a bargain; to close a course of
instruction.
One frugal supper did our studies close. Dryden.

4. To come or gather around; to inclose; to encompass; to confine.
The depth closed me round about. Jonah ii. 5.
But now thou dost thyself immure and close In some one corner of a
feeble heart. Herbert.
A closed sea, a sea within the jurisdiction of some particular
nation, which controls its navigation.

CLOSE
Close, v. i.

1. To come together; to unite or coalesce, as the parts of a wound,
or parts separated.
What deep wounds ever closed without a scar Byron.

2. To end, terminate, or come to a period; as, the debate closed at
six o'clock.

3. To grapple; to engange in hand-to-hand fight.
They boldly closed in a hand-to-hand contest. Prescott.
To close on or upon, to come to a mutual agreement; to agree on or
join in. "Would induce France and Holland to close upon some measures
between them to our disadvantage." Sir W. Temple.
 -- To close with. (a) To accede to; to consent or agree to; as, to
close with the terms proposed. (b) To make an agreement with.
 -- To close with the land (Naut.), to approach the land.

CLOSE
Close, n.

1. The manner of shutting; the union of parts; junction. [Obs.]
The doors of plank were; their close exquisite. Chapman.

2. Conclusion; cessation; ending; end.
His long and troubled life was drawing to a close. Macaulay.

3. A grapple in wrestling. Bacon.

4. (Mus.)
(a) The conclusion of a strain of music; cadence.
(b) A double bar marking the end.
At every close she made, the attending throng Replied, and bore the
burden of the song. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Conclusion; termination; cessation; end; ending; extremity;
extreme.

CLOSE
Close ( or ), n. Etym: [OF. & F. clos an inclosure, fr. clos, p. p.
of clore. See Close, v. t.]

1. An inclosed place; especially, a small field or piece of land
surrounded by a wall, hedge, or fence of any kind; -- specifically,
the precinct of a cathedral or abbey.
Closes surrounded by the venerable abodes of deans and canons.
Macaulay.

2. A narrow passage leading from a street to a court, and the houses
within. [Eng.] Halliwell

3. (Law)

Defn: The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, even
though it is not inclosed. Bouvier.

CLOSE
Close, a. [Compar. Closer; superl. Closest.] Etym: [Of. & F. clos, p.
p. of clore. See Close, v. t.]

1. Shut fast; closed; tight; as, a close box.
From a close bower this dainty music flowed. Dryden.

2. Narrow; confined; as, a close alley; close quarters. "A close
prison." Dickens.

3. Oppressive; without motion or ventilation; causing a feeling of
lassitude; -- said of the air, weather, etc.
If the rooms be low-roofed, or full of windows and doors, the one
maketh the air close, . . . and the other maketh it exceeding
unequal. Bacon.

4. Strictly confined; carefully quarded; as, a close prisoner.

5. Out of the way observation; secluded; secret; hidden. "He yet kept
himself close because of Saul." 1 Chron. xii. 1
"Her close intent." Spenser.

6. Disposed to keep secrets; secretive; reticent. "For servecy, no
lady closer." Shak.

7. Having the parts near each other; dense; solid; compact; as
applied to bodies; viscous; tenacious; not volatile, as applied to
liquids.
The golden globe being put into a press, . . . the water made itself
way through the pores of that very close metal. Locke.

8. Concise; to the point; as, close reasoning. "Where the original is
close no version can reach it in the same compass." Dryden.

9. Adjoining; near; either in space; time, or thought; -- often
followed by to.
Plant the spring crocuses close to a wall. Mortimer.
The thought of the Man of sorrows seemed a very close thing -- not a
faint hearsay. G. Eliot.

10. Short; as, to cut grass or hair close.

11. Intimate; familiar; confidential.
League with you I seek And mutual amity, so strait, so close, That I
with you must dwell, or you with me. Milton.

12. Nearly equal; almost evenly balanced; as, a close vote. "A close
contest." Prescott.

13. Difficult to obtain; as, money is close. Bartlett.

14. Parsimonious; stingy. "A crusty old fellow, as close as a vise."
Hawthorne.

15. Adhering strictly to a standard or original; exact; strict; as, a
close translation. Locke.

16. Accurate; careful; precise; also, attentive; undeviating; strict;
not wandering; as, a close observer.

17. (Phon.)

Defn: Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as
certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed
to open. Close borough. See under Borough.
 -- Close breeding. See under Breeding.
 -- Close communion, communion in the Lord's supper, restricted to
those who have received baptism by immersion.
 -- Close corporation, a body or corporation which fills its own
vacancies.
 -- Close fertilization. (Bot.) See Fertilization.
 -- Close harmony (Mus.), compact harmony, in which the tones
composing each chord are not widely distributed over several octaves.
 -- Close time, a fixed period during which killing game or catching
certain fish is prohibited by law.
 -- Close vowel (Pron.), a vowel which is pronounced with a
diminished aperture of the lips, or with contraction of the cavity of
the mouth.
 -- Close to the wind (Naut.), directed as nearly to the point from
which the wind blows as it is possible to sail; closehauled; -- said
of a vessel.

CLOSE
Close, adv.

1. In a close manner.

2. Secretly; darkly. [Obs.]
A wondrous vision which did close imply The course of all her fortune
and posterity. Spenser.

CLOSE-BANDED
Close"-band`ed, a.

Defn: Closely united.

CLOSE-BARRED
Close"-barred`, a.

Defn: Firmly barred or closed.

CLOSE-BODIED
Close"-bod`ied, a.

Defn: Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment. Ayliffe.

CLOSE-FIGHTS
Close"-fights`, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of a
vessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy's
boarders; -- called also close quarters. [Obs.]

CLOSEFISTED
Close"fist`ed, a.

Defn: Covetous; niggardly. Bp. Berkeley. "Closefisted contractors."
Hawthorne.

CLOSEHANDED
Close"hand`ed, a.

Defn: Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted.
 -- Close"hand`ed*ness, n.

CLOSEHAULED
Close"hauled`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the direction
from which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel.

CLOSELY
Close"ly, adv.

1. In a close manner.

2. Secretly; privately. [Obs.]
That nought she did but wayle, and often steepe Her dainty couch with
tears which closely she did weepe. Spenser.

CLOSEMOUTHED
Close"mouthed`, a.

Defn: Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative.

CLOSEN
Clos"en, v. t.

Defn: To make close. [R.]

CLOSENESS
Close"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being close.
Half stifled by the closeness of the room. Swift.
We rise not against the piercing judgment of Augustus, nor the
extreme caution or closeness of Tiberius. Bacon.
An affectation of closeness and covetousness. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Narrowness; oppressiveness; strictness; secrecy; compactness;
conciseness; nearness; intimacy; tightness; stinginess; literalness.

CLOSER
Clos"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, closes; specifically, a boot closer. See
under Boot.

2. A finisher; that which finishes or terminates.

3. (Masonry)

Defn: The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size than
the others, or a piece of brick finishing a course. Gwilt.

CLOSEREEFED
Close"reefed`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.

CLOSE-STOOL
Close"-stool`, n.

Defn: A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick and
infirm. It is usually in the form of a box, with a seat and tight
cover.

CLOSET
Clos"et, n. Etym: [OF. closet little inclosure, dim. of clos. See
Close an inclosure.]

1. A small room or apartment for retirement; a room for privacy.
A chair-lumbered closet, just twelve feet by nine. Goldsmith.
When thou prayest, enter into thy closet. Matt. vi. 6.

2. A small apartment, or recess in the side of a room, for household
utensils, clothing, etc. Dryden. Closet sin, sin commited in privacy.
Bp. Hall.

CLOSET
Clos"et, v. t. [imp. & p. pr. & vb. n. Closeting.]

1. To shut up in, or as in, a closet; to conceal. [R.]
Bedlam's closeted and handcuffed charge. Cowper.

2. To make into a closet for a secret interview.
He was to call a new legislature, to closet its members. Bancroft.
He had been closeted with De Quadra. Froude.

CLOSE-TONGUED
Close"-tongued` (, a.

Defn: Closemouthed; silent. "Close-tongued treason." Shak.

CLOSH
Closh, n. Etym: [CF. F. clocher to limp, halt.]

Defn: A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis. Crabb.

CLOSH
Closh, n. Etym: [CF. D. klossen to play at bowls.]

Defn: The game of ninepins. [Obs.] Halliwell.

CLOSURE
Clo"sure (, 135), n. Etym: [Of. closure, L. clausura, fr. clauedere
to shut. See Close, v. t.]

1. The act of shutting; a closing; as, the closure of a chink.

2. That which closes or shuts; that by which separate parts are
fastened or closed.
Without a seal, wafer, or any closure whatever. Pope.

3. That which incloses or confines; an inclosure.
O thou bloody prison . . . Within the guilty closure of thy walls
Richard the Second here was hacked to death. Shak.

4. A conclusion; an end. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Parliamentary Practice)

Defn: A method of putting an end to debate and securing an immediate
vote upon a measure before a legislative body. It is similar in
effect to the previous question. It was first introduced into the
British House of Commons in 1882. The French word clôture was
originally applied to this proceeding.

CLOT
Clot, n. Etym: [OE. clot, clodde, clod; akin to D. kloot ball, G.
kloss clod, dumpling, klotz block, Dan. klods, Sw. klot bowl, globe,
klots block; cf. AS. clate bur. Cf. Clod, n., Clutter to clot.]

Defn: A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated
mass, as of blood; a coagulum. "Clots of pory gore." Addison.
Doth bake the egg into clots as if it began to poach. Bacon.

Note: Clod and clot appear to be radically the same word, and are so
used by early writers; but in present use clod is applied to a mass
of earth or the like, and clot to a concretion or coagulation of soft
matter.

CLOT
Clot, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Clotting.]

Defn: To concrete, coagulate, or thicken, as soft or fluid matter by
evaporation; to become a cot or clod.

CLOT
Clot, v. t.

Defn: To form into a slimy mass.

CLOTBUR
Clot"bur`, n. Etym: [Cf. Clote.]

1. The burdock. [Prov. Engl.] Prior.

2. Same as Cocklebur.

CLOTE
Clote, n. Etym: [AS. cl: cf. G. klette.]

Defn: The common burdock; the clotbur. [Obs.] Wyclif.

CLOTH
Cloth, n.; pl. Cloths (#; 115), except in the sense of garments, when
it is Clothes (klothz or kloz). Etym: [OE. clath cloth, AS. cla\'ed
cloth, garment; akin to D. kleed, Icel. klæ\'ebi, Dan. klæde, cloth,
Sw. kläde, G. kleid garment, dress.]

1. A fabric made of fibrous material (or sometimes of wire, as in
wire cloth); commonly, a woven fabric of cotton, woolen, or linen,
adapted to be made into garments; specifically, woolen fabrics, as
distinguished from all others.

2. The dress; raiment. [Obs.] See Clothes.
I'll ne'er distust my God for cloth and bread. Quarles.

3. The distinctive dress of any profession, especially of the clergy;
hence, the clerical profession.
Appeals were made to the priesthood. Would they tamely permit so
gross an insult to be offered to their cloth Macaulay.
The cloth, the clergy, are constituted for administering and for
giving the best possible effect to . . . every axiom. I. Taylor.
Body cloth. See under Body.
 -- Cloth of gold, a fabric woven wholly or partially of threads of
gold.
 -- Cloth measure, the measure of length and surface by which cloth
is measured and sold. For this object the standard yard is usually
divided into quarters and nails.
 -- Cloth paper, a coarse kind of paper used in pressing and
finishing woolen cloth.
 -- Cloth shearer, one who shears cloth and frees it from superfluous
nap.

CLOTHE
Clothe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clothed ( or Clad; p. pr. & vb. n.
Clothing.] Etym: [OE. clathen, clothen, clethen, AS. cla\'ebian,
clæ\'eban. See Cloth.]

1. To put garments on; to cover with clothing; to dress.
Go with me, to clothe you as becomes you. Shak.

2. To provide with clothes; as, to feed and clothe a family; to
clothe one's self extravagantly.
Drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. Prov. xxiii. 21
The naked every day he clad, When he put on his clothes. Goldsmith.

3. Fig.: To cover or invest, as with a garment; as, to clothe one
with authority or power.
Language in which they can clothe their thoughts. Watts.
His sides are clothed with waving wood. J. Dyer.
Thus Belial, with with words clothed in reason's garb. Milton.

CLOTHE
Clothe, v. i.

Defn: To wear clothes. [Poetic]
Care no more to clothe eat. Shak.

CLOTHES
Clothes ( or ; 277), n. pl. Etym: [From Cloth.]

1. Covering for the human body; dress; vestments; vesture; -- a
general term for whatever covering is worn, or is made to be worn,
for decency or comfort.
She . . . speaks well, and has excellent good clothes. Shak.
If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole. Mark. v. 28.

2. The covering of a bed; bedclothes.
She turned each way her frighted head, Then sunk it deep beneath the
clothes. Prior.
Body clothes. See under Body.
 -- Clothes moth (Zoöl.), a small moth of the genus Tinea. The most
common species (T. flavifrontella)is yellowish white. The larvæ eat
woolen goods, furs, feathers, etc. They live in tubular cases made of
the material upon which they feed, fastened together with silk.

Syn.
 -- Garments; dress; clothing; apparel; attire; vesture; raiment;
garb; costume; habit; habiliments.

CLOTHESHORSE
Clothes"horse`, n.

Defn: A frame to hang clothes on.

CLOTHESLINE
Clothes"line`, n.

Defn: A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry.

CLOTHESPIN
Clothes"pin` ( or ), n.

Defn: A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used for
fastening clothes on a line.

CLOTHESPRESS
Clothes"press`, n.

Defn: A receptacle for clothes.

CLOTHIER
Cloth"ier, n.

1. One who makes cloths; one who dresses or fulls cloth. Hayward.

2. One who sells cloth or clothes, or who makes and sells clothes.

CLOTHING
Cloth"ing, n.

1. Garments in general; clothes; dress; raiment; covering.
From others he shall stand in need of nothing, Yet on his brothers
shall depend for clothing. Milton.
As for me, . . . my clothing was sackloth. Ps. xxxv. 13

2. The art of process of making cloth. [R.]
Instructing [refugees] in the art of clothing. Ray.

3. A covering of non-conducting material on the outside of a boiler,
or steam chamber, to prevent radiation of heat. Knight.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: See Card clothing, under 3d Card.

CLOTHRED
Clot"hred, p. p.

Defn: Clottered. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLOTPOLL
Clot"poll`, n.

Defn: See Clodpoll. [Obs.] Shak.

CLOTTED
Clot"ted, a.

Defn: Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of a
clot; sticky; slimy; foul. "The clotted glebe." J. Philips.
When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soul
grows clotted by contagion. Milton.

CLOTTER
Clot"ter, v. i. Etym: [From Clot.]

Defn: To concrete into lumps; to clot. [Obs.] "Clottered blood."
Chapman.

CLOTTY
Clot"ty, a. Etym: [From Clot, n.]

Defn: Full of clots, or clods. "Clotty matter." Harvey.

CLOTURE
Clô`ture", n. Etym: [F.] (Parliamentary Practice)

Defn: See Closure, 5.

CLOTWEED
Clot"weed`, n. Etym: [See Clote.]

Defn: Cocklebur.

CLOUD
Cloud, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. AS. cld a rock or hillock, the application
arising from the frequent resemblance of clouds to rocks or hillocks
in the sky or air.]

1. A collection of visible vapor, or watery particles, susponded in
the upper atmosphere.
I do set my bow in the cloud. Gen. ix. 13.

Note: A classification of clouds according to their chief forms was
first proposed by the meteorologist Howard, and this is still
substantially employed. The following varieties and subvarieties are
recognized: (a) Cirrus. This is the most elevated of all the forms of
clouds; is thin, long-drawn, sometimes looking like carded wool or
hair, sometimes like a brush or room, sometimes in curl-like or
fleecelike patches. It is the cat's-tail of the sailor, and the
mare's-tail of the landsman. (b) Cumulus. This form appears in large
masses of a hemispherical form, or nearly so, above, but flat below,
one often piled above another, forming great clouds, common in the
summer, and presenting the appearance of gigantic mountains crowned
with snow. It often affords rain and thunder gusts. (c) Stratus. This
form appears in layers or bands extending horizontally. (d) Nimbus.
This form is characterized by its uniform gray tint and ragged edges;
it covers the sky in seasons of continued rain, as in easterly
storms, and is the proper rain cloud. The name is sometimes used to
denote a raining cumulus, or cumulostratus. (e) Cirro-cumulus. This
form consists, like the cirrus, of thin, broken, fleecelice clouds,
but the parts are more or less rounded and regulary grouped. It is
popularly called mackerel sky. (f) Cirro-stratus. In this form the
patches of cirrus coalesce in long strata, between cirrus and
stratus. (g) Cumulo-stratus. A form between cumulus and stratus,
often assuming at the horizon a black or bluish tint.
 -- Fog, cloud, motionless, or nearly so, lying near or in contact
with the earth's surface.
 -- Storm scud, cloud lying quite low, without form, and driven
rapidly with the wind.

2. A mass or volume of smoke, or flying dust, resembling vapor. "A
thick cloud of incense." Ezek. viii. 11.

3. A dark vein or spot on a lighter material, as in marble; hence, a
blemish or defect; as, a cloud upon one's reputation; a cloud on a
title.

4. That which has a dark, lowering, or threatening aspect; that which
temporarily overshadows, obscures, or depresses; as, a cloud of
sorrow; a cloud of war; a cloud upon the intellect.

5. A great crowd or multitude; a vast collection. "So great a cloud
of witnesses." Heb. xii. 1.

6. A large, loosely-knitted scarf, worn by women about the head.
Cloud on a (or the) title (Law), a defect of title, usually
superficial and capable of removal by release, decision in equity, or
legislation.
 -- To be under a cloud, to be under suspicion or in disgrace; to be
in disfavor.
 -- In the clouds, in the realm of facy and imagination; beyond
reason; visionary.

CLOUD
Cloud, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clouded; p. pr. & vb. n. Clouding.]

1. To overspread or hide with a cloud or clouds; as, the sky is
clouded.

2. To darken or obscure, as if by hiding or enveloping with a cloud;
hence, to render gloomy or sullen.
One day too late, I fear me, noble lord, Hath clouded all thy happy
days on earth. Shak.
Be not disheartened, then, nor cloud those looks. Milton.
Nothing clouds men's minds and impairs their honesty like prejudice.
M. Arnold.

3. To blacken; to sully; to stain; to tarnish; to damage; -- esp.
used of reputation or character.
I would not be a stander-by to hear My sovereign mistress clouded so,
without My present vengeance taken. Shak.

4. To mark with, or darken in, veins or sports; to variegate with
colors; as, to cloud yarn.
And the nice conduct of a clouded cane. Pope.

CLOUD
Cloud, v. i.

Defn: To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often used
with up.
Worthies, away! The scene begins to cloud. Shak.

CLOUDAGE
Cloud"age, n.

Defn: Mass of clouds; cloudiness. [R.]
A scudding cloudage of shapes. Coleridge.

CLOUDBERRY
Cloud"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamæmerous) growing in the
northern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.

CLOUD-BUILT
Cloud"-built, a.

Defn: Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary.
Cowper.
So vanished my cloud-built palace. Goldsmith.

CLOUD-BURST
Cloud"-burst`, n.

Defn: A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had been
precipitated at once.

CLOUD-CAPPED
Cloud"-capped`, a.

Defn: Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to the
clouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.

CLOUD-COMPELLER
Cloud"-com*pel`ler, n.

Defn: Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus. [Poetic.] Pope.

CLOUDILY
Cloud"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely. Dryden.

CLOUDINESS
Cloud"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being cloudy.

CLOUDING
Cloud"ing, n.

1. A mottled appearance given to ribbons and silks in the process of
dyeing.

2. A diversity of colors in yarn, recurring at regular intervals.
Knight.

CLOUDLAND
Cloud"land`, n.

Defn: Dreamland.

CLOUDLESS
Cloud"less, a.

Defn: Without a cloud; clear; bright.
A cloudless winter sky. Bankroft.
-- Cloud"less*ly, adv.
 -- Cloud"less*ness, n.

CLOUDLET
Cloud"let, n.

Defn: A little cloud. R. Browning.
Eve's first star through fleecy cloudlet peeping. Coleridge.

CLOUDY
Cloud"y (, a. [Compar. Cloudier (; superl. Cloudiest.] Etym: [From
Cloud, n.]

1. Overcast or obscured with clouds; clouded; as, a cloudy sky.

2. Consisting of a cloud or clouds.
As Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended.
Ex. xxxiii. 9

3. Indicating gloom, anxiety, sullenness, or ill-nature; not open or
cheerful. "A cloudy countenance." Shak.

4. Confused; indistinct; obscure; dark.
Cloudy and confused notions of things. Watts.

5. Lacking clearness, brightness, or luster. "A cloudy diamond."
Boyle.

6. Marked with veins or sports of dark or various hues, as marble.

CLOUGH
Clough, n. Etym: [OE. clough, cloghe, clou, clewch, AS. (assumed)
cloh, akin to G. klinge ravine.]

1. A cleft in a hill; a ravine; a narrow valley. Nares.

2. A sluice used in returning water to a channel after depositing its
sediment on the flooded land. Knight.

CLOUGH
Clough, n. (Com.)

Defn: An allowance in weighing. See Cloff.

CLOUT
Clout, n. Etym: [AS. clut a little cloth, piece of metal; cf. Sw.
klut, Icel. klutr a kerchief, or W. clwt a clout, Gael. clud.]

1. A cloth; a piece of cloth or leather; a patch; a rag.
His garments, nought but many ragged clouts, With thorns together
pinned and patched was. Spenser.
A clout upon that head where late the diadem stood. Shak.

2. A swadding cloth.

3. A piece; a fragment. [Obs.] Chaucer.

4. The center of the butt at which archers shoot; -- probably once a
piece of white cloth or a nail head.
A'must shoot nearer or he'll ne'er hit the clout. Shak.

5. An iron plate on an axletree or other wood to keep it from
wearing; a washer.

6. A blow with the hand. [Low] Clout nail, a kind of wrought-iron
nail heaving a large flat head; -- used for fastening clouts to
axletrees, plowshares, etc., also for studding timber, and for
various purposes.

CLOUT
Clout, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Clouting.] Etym:
[OE. clutien. clouten, to patch. See Clout, n.]

1. To cover with cloth, leather, or other material; to bandage;
patch, or mend, with a clout.
And old shoes and clouted upon their feet. Josh. ix. 5.
Paul, yea, and Peter, too, had more skill in . . . clouting an old
tent than to teach lawyers. Latimer.

2. To join or patch clumsily.
If fond Bavius vent his clouted song. P. Fletcher

3. To quard with an iron plate, as an axletree.

4. To give a blow to; to strike. [Low]
The . . . queen of Spain took off one of her chopines and clouted
Olivarez about the noddle with it. Howell.

5. To stud with nails, as a timber, or a boot sole. Clouted cream,
clotted cream, i. e., cream obtained by warming new milk. A. Philips.

Note: "Clouted brogues" in Shakespeare and "clouted shoon" in Milton
have been understood by some to mean shoes armed with nails; by
others, patched shoes.

CLOUTERLY
Clout"er*ly, a. Etym: [From Clout, n.]

Defn: Clumsy; awkward. [Obs.]
Rough-hewn, cloutery verses. E. Phillips.

CLOVE
Clove,

Defn: imp. of Cleave. Cleft. Spenser. Clove hitch (Naut.) See under
Hitch.
 -- Clove hook (Naut.), an iron two-part hook, with jaws overlapping,
used in bending chain sheets to the clews of sails; -- called also
clip hook. Knight.

CLOVE
Clove, n. Etym: [D. kloof. See Cleave, v. t.]

Defn: A cleft; a gap; a ravine; -- rarely used except as part of a
proper name; as, Kaaterskill Clove; Stone Clove.

CLOVE
Clove, n. Etym: [OE. clow, fr. F. clou nail, clou de girofle a clove,
lit. nail of clove, fr. L. clavus nail, perh. akin to clavis key, E.
clavicle. The clove was so called from its resemblance to a nail. So
in D. kruidnagel clove, lit. herb-nail or spice-nail. Cf. Cloy.]

Defn: A very pungent aromatic spice, the unexpanded flower bud of the
clove tree (Eugenia, or Caryophullus, aromatica), a native of the
Molucca Isles. Clove camphor. (Chem.) See Eugenin.
 -- Clove gillyflower, Clove pink (Bot.), any fragrant self-colored
carnation.

CLOVE
Clove, n. Etym: [AS. clufe an ear of corn, a clove of garlic; cf.
cleófan to split, E. cleave.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the small bulbs developed in the axils of the scales of
a large bulb, as in the case of garlic.
Developing, in the axils of its skales, new bulbs, of what gardeners
call cloves. Lindley.

2. A weight. A clove of cheese is about eight pounds, of wool, about
seven pounds. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLOVEN
Clo"ven, p. p. & a.

Defn: from Cleave, v. t. To show the cloven foot or hoof, to reveal a
devilish character, or betray an evil purpose, notwithstanding
disguises, -- Satan being represented dramatically and symbolically
as having cloven hoofs.

CLOVEN-FOOTED; CLOVEN-HOOFED
Clo"ven-foot`ed, Clo"ven-hoofed`, a.

Defn: Having the foot or hoof divided into two parts, as the ox.

CLOVER
Clo"ver, n. Etym: [OE. claver, clover, AS. cl; akin to LG. & Dan.
klever, D. klaver, G. klee, Sw. kl.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as the
common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's
foot, T. arvense. Clover weevil (Zoöl.) a small weevil (Apion
apricans), that destroys the seeds of clover.
 -- Clover worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Asopia costalis),
often very destructive to clover hay.
 -- In clover, in very pleasant circumstances; fortunate. [Colloq.] -
- Sweet clover. See Meliot.

CLOVERED
Clo"vered, a.

Defn: Covered with growing clover.
Flocks thick nibbling through the clovered vale. Thomson.

CLOWE-GILOFRE
Clowe"-gi*lof`re, n. Etym: [See 3d Clove, and Gilliflower.]

Defn: Spice clove. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLOWN
Clown, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. klunni a clumsy, boorish fellow, North
Fries. kl clown, dial. Sw. klunn log, Dan. klunt log block, and E.
clump, n.]

1. A man of coarse nature and manners; an awkward fellow; an illbred
person; a boor. Sir P. Sidney.

2. One who works upon the soil; a rustic; a churl.
The clown, the child of nature, without guile. Cowper.

3. The fool or buffoon in a play, circus, etc.
The clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o'the sere.
Shak.

CLOWN
Clown, v. i.

Defn: To act as a clown; -- with it [Obs.]
Beclowns it properly indeed. B. Jonson.

CLOWNAGE
Clown"age, n.

Defn: Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

CLOWNERY
Clown"er*y, n.

Defn: Clownishness. L'Estrange.

CLOWNISH
Clown"ish, a.

Defn: Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown;
ungainly; awkward. "Clownish hands." Spenser. "Clownish mimic."
Prior.
 -- Clown"ish*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Coarse; rough; clumsy; awkward; ungainly; rude; uncivil; ill-
bred; boorish; rustic; untutored.

CLOWNISHNESS
Clown"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior.
That plainness which the alamode people call clownishness. Locke.

CLOY
Cloy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cloyed (kloid); p. pr. & vb. n. Cloying.]
Etym: [OE. cloer to nail up, F. clouer, fr. OF. clo nail, F. clou,
fr. L. clavus nail. Cf. 3d Clove.]

1. To fill or choke up; to stop up; to clog. [Obs.]
The duke's purpose was to have cloyed the harbor by sinking ships,
laden with stones. Speed.

2. To glut, or satisfy, as the appetite; to satiate; to fill to
loathing; to surfeit.
[Who can] cloy the hungry edge of appetite By bare imagination of a
feast Shak.
He sometimes cloys his readers instead of satisfying. Dryden.

3. To penetrate or pierce; to wound.
Which, with his cruel tusk, him deadly cloyed. Spenser.
He never shod horse but he cloyed him. Bacon.

4. To spike, as a cannon. [Obs.] Johnson.

5. To stroke with a claw. [Obs.] Shak.

CLOYLESS
Cloy"less, a.

Defn: That does not cloy. Shak.

CLOYMENT
Cloy"ment, n.

Defn: Satiety. [Obs.] Shak.

CLUB
Club, n. Etym: [CF. Icel. klubba, klumba, club, klumbuf a clubfoot,
SW. klubba club, Dan. klump lump, klub a club, G. klumpen clump,
kolben club, and E. clump.]

1. A heavy staff of wood, usually tapering, and wielded the hand; a
weapon; a cudgel.
But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs; Rome and her rats are
at the point of battle. Shak.

2. Etym: [Cf. the Spanish name bastos, and Sp. baston staff, club.]

Defn: Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoil
or clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure.

3. An association of persons for the promotion of some common object,
as literature, science, politics, good fellowship, etc.; esp. an
association supported by equal assessments or contributions of the
members.
They talked At wine, in clubs, of art, of politics. Tennyson.
He [Goldsmith] was one of the nine original members of that
celebrated fraternity which has sometimes been called the Literary
Club, but which has always disclaimed that epithet, and still glories
in the simple name of the Club. Macaulay.

4. A joint charge of expense, or any person's share of it; a
contribution to a common fund.
They laid down the club. L'Estrange.
We dined at a French house, but paid ten shillings for our part of
the club. Pepys.
Club law, government by violence; lynch law; anarchy. Addison. -Club
moss (Bot.), an evergreen mosslike plant, much used in winter
decoration. The best know species is Lycopodium clavatum, but other
Lycopodia are often called by this name. The spores form a highly
inflammable powder.
 -- Club root (Bot.), a disease of cabbages, by which the roots
become distorted and the heads spoiled.
 -- Club topsail (Naut.), a kind of gaff topsail, used mostly by
yachts having a fore-and-aft rig. It has a short "club" or "jack
yard" to increase its spread.

CLUB
Club, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Clubbing.]

1. To beat with a club.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: To throw, or allow to fall, into confusion.
To club a battalion implies a temporary inability in the commanding
officer to restore any given body of men to their natural front in
line or column. Farrow.

3. To unite, or contribute, for the accomplishment of a common end;
as, to club exertions.

4. To raise, or defray, by a proportional assesment; as, to club the
expense. To club a musket (Mil.), to turn the breach uppermost, so as
to use it as a club.

CLUB
Club, v. i.

1. To form a club; to combine for the promotion of some common
object; to unite.
Till grosser atoms, tumbling in the stream Of fancy, madly met, and
clubbed into a dream. Dryden.

2. To pay on equal or proportionate share of a common charge or
expense; to pay for something by contribution.
The owl, the raven, and the bat, Clubbed for a feather to his hat.
Swift.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To drift in a current with an anchor out.

CLUBBABLE
Club"ba*ble, a.

Defn: Suitable for membership in a club; sociable. [Humorous.] G. W.
Curtis.

CLUBBED
Clubbed, a.

Defn: Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club. Skelton.

CLUBBER
Club"ber, n.

1. One who clubs.

2. A member of a club. [R.] Massinger.

CLUBBISH
Club"bish, a.

1. Rude; clownish. [Obs.]

2. Disposed to club together; as, a clubbish set.

CLUBBIST
Club"bist, n.

Defn: A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs. [R.] Burke.

CLUBFIST
Club"fist`, n.

1. A large, heavy fist.

2. A coarse, brutal fellow. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

CLUBFISTED
Club"fist`ed, a.

Defn: Having a large fist. Howell.

CLUBFOOT
Club"foot, n. Etym: [Club + foot.] (Med.)

Defn: A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usually
congenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes.

CLUBFOOTED
Club"foot`ed, a.

Defn: Having a clubfoot.

CLUBHAND
Club"hand`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such a
hand.

CLUBHAUL
Club"haul`, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon as
the wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to the
wind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the other
tack. Clubhauling is attempted only in an exigency.

CLUBHOUSE
Club"house`, n.

Defn: A house occupied by a club.

CLUBROOM
Club"room`, n.

Defn: The apartment in which a club meets. Addison.

CLUB-RUSH
Club"-rush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species of
the genus Scirpus. See Bulrush.

CLUB-SHAPED
Club"-shaped, a.

Defn: Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennæ of certain
insects.

CLUCK
Cluck, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clucked; p pr. & vb. n. Clucking.] Etym:
[AS. cloccian; cf. D. klokken, G. glucken, glucksen, LG. klukken,
Dan. klukke; all prob. of imitative origin.]

Defn: To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen. Ray.

CLUCK
Cluck, v. t.

Defn: To call together, or call to follow, as a hen does her
chickens.
She, poor hen, fond of no second brood, Has clucked three to the
wars. Shak.

CLUCK
Cluck, n.

1. The call of a hen to her chickens.

2. A click. See 3d Click, 2.

CLUCKING
Cluck"ing, n.

Defn: The noise or call of a brooding hen.

CLUE
Clue, n. Etym: [See Clew, n.]

Defn: A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same as
Clew.
You have wound a goodly clue. Shak.
This clue once found unravels all the rest. Pope.
Serve as clues to guide us into further knowledge. Locke.

CLUM
Clum, interj.

Defn: Silence; hush. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CLUMBER
Clum"ber, n. Etym: [Named from the estate of the Duke of Newcastle.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which,
unlike other spaniels, hunts silently.

CLUMP
Clump, n. Etym: [Cf. D. klomp lump, G. klump, klumpen, Dan. klump,
Sw. kllimp; perh. akin to L. globus, E. globe. Cf. Club.]

1. An unshaped piece or mass of wood or other substance.

2. A cluster; a group; a thicket.
A clump of shrubby trees. Hawthorne.

3. The compressed clay of coal strata. Brande & C.

CLUMP
Clump, v. t.

Defn: To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group.
Blackmore.

CLUMP
Clump, v. i.

Defn: To tread clumsily; to clamp. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

CLUMPER
Clump"er, v. t. Etym: [Cf. G. klümpern to clod. See Clump, n.]

Defn: To form into clumps or masses. [Obs.]
Vapors . . . clumpered in balls of clouds. Dr. H. More.

CLUMPS
Clumps, n.

Defn: A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling
the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by
two persons who answer the questions; -- so called because the
players take sides in two "clumps" or groups, the "clump" which
guesses the word winning the game.

CLUMPY
Clump"y, a. Etym: [From Clump, n.]

Defn: Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless. Leigh Hunt.

CLUMSILY
Clum"si*ly, adv.

Defn: In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily.

CLUMSINESS
Clum"si*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being clusy.
The drudging part of life is chiefly owing to clumsiness and
ignorance. Collier.

CLUMSY
Clum"sy, a. [Compar. Clumsier; superl. Clumsiest.] Etym: [OE. clumsed
benumbed, fr. clumsen to be benumbed; cf. Icel. klumsa lockjaw, dial.
Sw. klummsen benumbed with cold. Cf. 1st Clam, and 1st Clamp.]

1. Stiff or benumbed, as with cold. [Obs.]

2. Without skill or grace; wanting dexterity, nimbleness, or
readiness; stiff; awkward, as if benumbed; unwieldy; unhandy; hence;
ill-made, misshapen, or inappropriate; as, a clumsy person; a clumsy
workman; clumsy fingers; a clumsy gesture; a clumsy excuse.
But thou in clumsy verse, unlicked, unpointed, Hast shamefully defied
the Lord's anointed. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- See Awkward.

CLUNCH
Clunch, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. clinch to make fast]

Defn: .

1. (Mining)

Defn: Indurated clay. See Bind, n., 3.

2. One of the hard beds of the lower chalk. Dana.

CLUNG
Clung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Cling.

CLUNG
Clung, a. Etym: [Prop. p. p. fr. OE. clingen to wither. See Cling, v.
i.]

Defn: Wasted away; shrunken. [Obs.]

CLUNIAC
Clu"ni*ac, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, founded
in 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France.
 -- Also used as a.

CLUNIACENSIAN
Clu`ni*a*cen"sian, a.

Defn: Cluniac.

CLUPEOID
Clu"pe*oid, a. Etym: [L.clupea a kind of fish, NL., generic name of
the herring + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Herring family.

CLUSTER
Clus"ter, n. Etym: [AS. cluster, clyster; cf. LG. kluster (also Sw. &
Dan. klase a cluster of grapes, D. klissen to be entangled.)]

1. A number of things of the same kind growing together; a bunch.
Her deeds were like great clusters of ripe grapes, Which load the
bunches of the fruitful vine. Spenser.

2. A number of similar things collected together or lying contiguous;
a group; as, a cluster of islands. "Cluster of provinces." Motley.

3. A number of individuals grouped together or collected in one
place; a crowd; a mob.
As bees . . . Pour forth their populous youth about the hive In
clusters. Milton.
We loved him; but, like beasts And cowardly nobles, gave way unto
your clusters, Who did hoot him out o' the city. Shak.

CLUSTER
Clus"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Clustered; p. pr. & vb. n. Clustering.]

Defn: To grow in clusters or assemble in groups; to gather or unite
in a cluster or clusters.
His sunny hair Cluster'd about his temples, like a god's. Tennyson.
The princes of the country clustering together. Foxe.

CLUSTER
Clus"ter, v. t.

Defn: To collect into a cluster or clusters; to gather into a bunch
or close body.
Not less the bee would range her cells, . . . The foxglove cluster
dappled bells. Tennyson.
Or from the forest falls the clustered snow. Thomson.
Clustered column (Arch.), a column which is composed, or appears to
be composed, of several columns collected together.

CLUSTERINGLY
Clus"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In clusters.

CLUSTERY
Clus"ter*y, a. Etym: [From Cluster, n.]

Defn: Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters. Johnson.

CLUTCH
Clutch (kluch; 224), n. Etym: [OE. cloche, cloke, claw, Scot. clook,
cleuck, also OE. cleche claw, clechen, cleken, to seize; cf. AS.
gelæccan (where ge- is a prefix) to seize. Cf. Latch a catch.]

1. A gripe or clinching with, or as with, the fingers or claws;
seizure; grasp. "The clutch of poverty." Cowper.
An expiring clutch at popularity. Carlyle.
But Age, with his stealing steps, Hath clawed me in his clutch. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; --
often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall into
the clutches of an adversary.
I must have . . . little care of myself, if I ever more come near the
clutches of such a giant. Bp. Stillingfleet.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A device which is used for coupling shafting, etc., so as to
transmit motion, and which may be disengaged at pleasure.

4. Any device for gripping an object, as at the end of a chain or
tackle.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The nest complement of eggs of a bird. Bayonet clutch (Mach.),
a clutch in which connection is made by means of bayonets attached to
arms sliding on a feathered shaft. The bayonets slide through holes
in a crosshead fastened on the shaft.

CLUTCH
Clutch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Clutched; p. pr. & vb. n. Clutching.]
Etym: [OE. clucchen. See Clutch, n.]

1. To seize, clasp, or gripe with the hand, hands, or claws; -- often
figuratively; as, to clutch power.
A man may set the poles together in his head, and clutch the whole
globe at one intellectual grasp. Collier.
Is this a dagger which I see before me . . . Come, let me clutch
thee. Shak.

2. To close tightly; to clinch.
Not that I have the power to clutch my hand. Shak.

CLUTCH
Clutch, v. i.

Defn: To reach (at something) as if to grasp; to catch or snatch; --
often followed by at.
Clutching at the phantoms of the stock market. Bankroft.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. W. cludair heap, pile, cludeirio to heap.]

1. A confused collection; hence, confusion; disorder; as, the room is
in a clutter.
He saw what a clutter there was with huge, overgrown pots, pans, and
spits. L'Estrange.

2. Clatter; confused noise. Swift.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cluttered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cluttering.]

Defn: To crowd together in disorder; to fill or cover with things in
disorder; to throw into disorder; to disarrange; as, to clutter a
room.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, v. i.

Defn: To make a confused noise; to bustle.
It [the goose] cluttered here, it chuckled there. Tennyson.

CLUTTER
Clut"ter, v. t. Etym: [From Clod, n.]

Defn: To clot or coagulate, as blood. [Obs.] Holland.

CLYDESDALE
Clydes"dale, n.

Defn: One of a breed of heavy draft horses originally from
Clydesdale, Scotland. They are about sixteen hands high and usually
brown or bay.

CLYDESDALE TERRIER
Clydesdale terrier.

Defn: One of a breed of small silky-haired terriers related to, but
smaller than, the Skye terrier, having smaller and perfectly erect
ears.

CLYPEASTROID
Clyp`e*as"troid, a. Etym: [NL. Clypeaster (L. clupeus shield + aster
star) + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a group
of flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side.

CLYPEATE
Clyp"e*ate, a. Etym: [L. clupeatus, p. p. of clupeare to arm with a
shield, fr. clupeus, clipeus shield.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Furnished with a shield, or a protective plate or shell.

CLYPEIFORM
Clyp"e*i*form`, a. Etym: [L. clupeus shield + -form.]

Defn: Shield-shaped; clypeate.

CLYPEUS
Clyp"e*us, n.; pl. Clypei. Etym: [L., a shield.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The frontal plate of the head of an insect.

CLYSMIAN
Clys"mi*an, a. Etym: [Gr. Clyster.]

Defn: Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm;
as, clysmian changes. Smart.

CLYSMIC
Clys"mic, a.

Defn: Washing; cleansing.

CLYSTER
Clys"ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. G. hlutrs pure, G. lauter: cf. F.
clystère] (Med.)

Defn: A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of a
syringe; an injection; an enema. Clyster pipe, a tube or pipe used
for injections.

CLYTIE KNOT
Cly"tie knot.

Defn: In hair dressing, a loose, low coil at the back of the head,
like the knot on the head of the bust of Clytie by G. F. Watts.

CNEMIAL
Cne"mi*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the shin bone. Cnemial crest, a crestlike
prominence on the proximal end of the tibia of birds and some
reptiles.

CNIDA
Cni"da, n.; pl. Cnidæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; a
nematocyst; a lasso cell.

CNIDARIA
Cni*da"ri*a, n., pl. Etym: [NL. See Cnida.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive group equivalent to the true Coelenterata,
i.e., exclusive of the sponges. They are so named from presence of
stinging cells (cnidae) in the tissues. See Coelenterata.

CNIDOBLAST
Cni"do*blast, n. Etym: [Cnida + -blast.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the cells which, in the Coelenterata, develop into
cnidæ.

CNIDOCIL
Cni"do*cil, n. Etym: [Cnida + cilium eyelash.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fine filiform process of a cnidoblast.

CO-
Co- (.

Defn: A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, in
conjunction, joint. It is used before vowels and some consonants. See
Com-.

COACERVATE
Co`a*cer"vate, a. Etym: [L. coacervatus, p. p. of coacervare to heap
up; co- + acervare. See Acervate.]

Defn: Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped. [R.] Bacon.

COACERVATE
Co`a*cer"vate, v. t.

Defn: To heap up; to pile. [R.]

COACERVATION
Co*ac`er*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. coacervatio.]

Defn: A heaping together. [R.] Bacon.

COACH
Coach (; 224), n. Etym: [F. coche, fr. It. cocchio, dim. of cocca
little boat, fr. L. concha mussel, mussel shell, Gr. çankha. Cf.
Conch, Cockboat, Cockle.]

1. A large, closed, four-wheeled carriage, having doors in the sides,
and generally a front and back seat inside, each for two persons, and
an elevated outside seat in front for the driver.

Note: Coaches have a variety of forms, and differ in respect to the
number of persons they can carry. Mail coaches and tallyho coaches
often have three or more seats inside, each for two or three persons,
and seats outside, sometimes for twelve or more.

2. A special tutor who assists in preparing a student for
examination; a trainer; esp. one who trains a boat's crew for a race.
[Colloq.]
Wareham was studying for India with a Wancester coach. G. Eliot.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A cabin on the after part of the quarterdeck, usually occupied
by the captain. [Written also couch.] [Obs.]
The commanders came on board and the council sat in the coach. Pepys.

4. (Railroad)

Defn: A first-class passenger car, as distinguished from a drawing-
room car, sleeping car, etc. It is sometimes loosely applied to any
passenger car.

COACH
Coach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coached; p. pr. & vb. n. Coaching.]

1. To convey in a coach. Pope.

2. To prepare for public examination by private instruction; to train
by special instruction. [Colloq.]
I coached him before he got his scholarship. G. Eliot.

COACH
Coach, v. i.

Defn: To drive or to ride in a coach; -- sometimes used with it.
[Colloq.] "Coaching it to all quarters." E. Waterhouse.

COACHBOX
Coach"box`.

Defn: The seat of a coachman.

COACHDOG
Coach"dog`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; the
Dalmatian dog.

COACHEE
Coach"ee, n.

Defn: A coachman [Slang]

COACHER
Coach"er, n.

1. A coachman. [Obs.]

2.  A coach horse.

3.  One who coaches; specif. (Baseball),

Defn: one of the side at the bat posted near first or third base to
direct a base runner.

COACHFELLOW
Coach"fel`low, n.

Defn: One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.),
a comrade. Shak.

COACHMAN
Coach"man, n.; pl. Coachmen.

1. A man whose business is to drive a coach or carriage.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tropical fish of the Atlantic ocean (Dutes auriga); -- called
also charioteer. The name refers to a long, lashlike spine of the
dorsal fin.

COACHMANSHIP
Coach"man*ship, n.

Defn: Skill in driving a coach.

COACHWHIP SNAKE
Coach"whip` snake". (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, slender, harmless snake of the southern United States
(Masticophis flagelliformis).

Note: Its long and tapering tail has the scales so arranged and
colored as to give it a braided appearance, whence the name.

COACT
Co*act", v. t. Etym: [L. coactare, intens. fr. cogere, coactum, to
force. See Cogent.]

Defn: To force; to compel; to drive. [Obs.]
The faith and service of Christ ought to be voluntary and not
coacted. Foxe.

COACT
Co*act", v. i. Etym: [Pref. co- + act, v.i.]

Defn: To act together; to work in concert; to unite. [Obs.]
But if I tell you how these two did coact. Shak.

COACTION
Co*ac"tion, n. Etym: [L. coactio.]

Defn: Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling. Sojth.

COACTIVE
Co*ac"tive, a. Etym: [In sense 1, fr. 1st Coact; in sense 2, fr. 2d
Coact.]

1. Serving to compel or constrain; compulsory; restrictive.
Any coactive power or the civil kind. Bp. Warburton.

2. Acting in concurrence; united in action.
With what's unreal thou coactive art. Shak.

COACTIVELY
Co*ac"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coactive manner.

COACTIVITY
Co`ac*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: Unity of action.

COADAPTATION
Co*ad`ap*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Mutual adaption. R. Owen.

COADAPTED
Co`a*dapt"ed, a.

Defn: Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth. R. Owen.

COADJUMENT
Co*ad"ju*ment, n.

Defn: Mutual help; coöperation. [R.] Johnson.

COADJUST
Co`ad*just", v. t.

Defn: To adjust by mutual adaptations. R. Owen.

COADJUSTMENT
Co`ad*just"ment, n.

Defn: Mutual adjustment.

COADJUTANT
Co*ad"ju*tant, a.

Defn: Mutually assisting or operating; helping. J. Philips.

COADJUTANT
Co*ad"ju*tant, n.

Defn: An assistant. R. North.

COADJUTING
Co*ad"ju*ting, a.

Defn: Mutually assisting. [Obs.] Drayton.

COADJUTIVE
Co*ad"ju*tive, a.

Defn: Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant. Feltham.

COADJUTOR
Co`ad*ju"tor, n. Etym: [L. See Co-, and Aid.]

1. One who aids another; an assistant; a coworker.
Craftily outwitting her perjured coadjutor. Sheridan.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The assistant of a bishop or of a priest holding a benefice.

COADJUTORSHIP
Co`ad*ju"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance. Pope.

COADJUTRESS; COADJUTRIX
Co`ad*ju"tress, Co`ad*ju"trix, n.

Defn: A female coadjutor or assistant. Holland. Smollett.

COADJUVANCY
Co*ad"ju*van*cy, n.

Defn: Joint help; coöperation. Sir T. Browne.

COADJUVANT
Co*ad"ju*vant, a.

Defn: Coöperating.

COADJUVANT
Co*ad"ju*vant, n. (Med.)

Defn: An adjuvant.

COADUNATE
Co*ad"u*nate, a. Etym: [L. coadunatus, p. p. of coadunare to unite.
See Adunation.] (Bot.)

Defn: United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.

COADUNATION
Co*ad`u*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. coadunatio.]

Defn: Union, as in one body or mass; unity. Jer. Taylor.
The coadunation of all the civilized provinces. Coleridge.

COADUNITION
Co*ad`u*ni"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. co- + pref. ad- + unition.]

Defn: Coadunation. [R.] Sir M. Hale.

COADVENTURE
Co`ad*ven"ture, n.

Defn: An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers.

COADVENTURE
Co`ad*ven"ture, v. i.

Defn: To share in a venture. Howell.

COADVENTURER
Co`ad*ven"tur*er, n.

Defn: A fellow adventurer.

COAFFOREST
Co`af*for"est, v. t.

Defn: To convert into, or add to, a forest. Howell.

COAG
Coag, n.

Defn: See Coak, a kind of tenon.

COAGENCY
Co*a"gen*cy, n.

Defn: Agency in common; joint agency or agent. Coleridge.

COAGENT
Co*a"gent, n.

Defn: An associate in an act; a coworker. Drayton.

COAGMENT
Co`ag*ment", v. t. Etym: [L. coagmentare, fr. coagmentum a joining
together, fr. cogere. See Cogent.]

Defn: To join together. [Obs.] Glanvill.

COAGMENTATION
Co*ag`men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. coagmentatio.]

Defn: The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together;
union. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

COAGULABILITY
Co*ag`u*la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated.
Ure.

COAGULABLE
Co*ag"u*la*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being coagulated. Boyle.

COAGULANT
Co*ag"u*lant, n. Etym: [L. coagulans, p. pr.]

Defn: That which produces coagulation.

COAGULATE
Co*ag"u*late, a. Etym: [L. coagulatus, p. p. of coagulare to
coagulate, fr. coagulum means of coagulation, fr. cogere, coactum, to
drive together, coagulate. See Cogent.]

Defn: Coagulated. [Obs.] Shak.

COAGULATE
Co*ag"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coagulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coagulating.]

Defn: To cause (a liquid) to change into a curdlike or semisolid
state, not by evaporation but by some kind of chemical reaction; to
curdle; as, rennet coagulates milk; heat coagulates the white of an
egg.

COAGULATE
Co*ag"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To undergo coagulation. Boyle.

Syn.
 -- To thicken; concrete; curdle; clot; congeal.

COAGULATED
Co*ag"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass;
curdled. Coagulated proteid (Physiol. Chem.), one of a class of
bodies formed in the coagulation of a albuminous substance by heat,
acids, or other agents.

COAGULATION
Co*ag`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. coagulatio.]

1. The change from a liquid to a thickened, curdlike, insoluble
state, not by evaporation, but by some kind of chemical reaction; as,
the spontaneous coagulation of freshly drawn blood; the coagulation
of milk by rennet, or acid, and the coagulation of egg albumin by
heat. Coagulation is generally the change of an albuminous body into
an insoluble modification.

2. The substance or body formed by coagulation.

COAGULATIVE
Co*ag"u*la*tive, a.

Defn: Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent.
Boyle.

COAGULATOR
Co*ag"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: That which causes coagulation. Hixley.

COAGULATORY
Co*ag"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatory
effects. Boyle.

COAGULUM
Co*ag"u*lum, n.; pl. Coagula. Etym: [L. See Coagulate, a.]

Defn: The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation of
albuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of bloot.

COAITA
Co*ai"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus
Ateles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. See
Illustration in Appendix.

COAK
Coak, n.

Defn: See Coke, n.

COAK
Coak, n.

1. (Carp.)

Defn: A kind of tenon connecting the face of a scarfed timber with
the face of another timber, or a dowel or pin of hard wood or iron
uniting timbers. [Also spelt coag.]

2. A metallic bushing or strengthening piece in the center of a
wooden block sheve.

COAK
Coak, v. t. (Carp.)

Defn: To unite, as timbers, by means of tenons or dowels in the edges
or face. Totten.

COAL
Coal, n. Etym: [AS. col; akin to D. kool, OHG. chol, cholo, G. kohle,
Icel. kol, pl., Sw. kol, Dan. kul; cf. Skr. jval to burn. Cf. Kiln,
Collier.]

1. A thoroughly charred, and extinguished or still ignited, fragment
from wood or other combustible substance; charcoal.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dug
from beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting,
like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and often
affording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter.

Note: This word is often used adjectively, or as the first part of
self-explaining compounds; as, coal-black; coal formation; coal
scuttle; coal ship. etc.

Note: In England the plural coals is used, for the broken mineral
coal burned in grates, etc.; as, to put coals on the fire. In the
United States the singular in a collective sense is the customary
usage; as, a hod of coal. Age of coal plants. See Age of Acrogens,
under Acrogen.
 -- Anthracite or Glance coal. See Anthracite.
 -- Bituminous coal. See under Bituminous.
 -- Blind coal. See under Blind.
 -- Brown coal, or Lignite. See Lignite.
 -- Caking coal, a bituminous coal, which softens and becomes pasty
or semi-viscid when heated. On increasing the heat, the volatile
products are driven off, and a coherent, grayish black, cellular mass
of coke is left.
 -- Cannel coal, a very compact bituminous coal, of fine texture and
dull luster. See Cannel coal.
 -- Coal bed (Geol.), a layer or stratum of mineral coal.
 -- Coal breaker, a structure including machines and machinery
adapted for crushing, cleansing, and assorting coal.
 -- Coal field (Geol.), a region in which deposits of coal occur.
Such regions have often a basinlike structure, and are hence called
coal basins. See Basin.
 -- Coal gas, a variety of carbureted hydrogen, procured from
bituminous coal, used in lighting streets, houses, etc., and for
cooking and heating.
 -- Coal heaver, a man employed in carrying coal, and esp. in putting
it in, and discharging it from, ships.
 -- Coal measures. (Geol.) (a) Strata of coal with the attendant
rocks. (b) A subdivision of the carboniferous formation, between the
millstone grit below and the Permian formation above, and including
nearly all the workable coal beds of the world.
 -- Coal oil, a general name for mineral oils; petroleum.
 -- Coal plant (Geol.), one of the remains or impressions of plants
found in the strata of the coal formation.
 -- Coal tar. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- To haul over the coals, to call to account; to scold or censure.
[Colloq.] -- Wood coal. See Lignite.

COAL
Coal, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coaled; p. pr. & vb. n. Coaling.]

1. To burn to charcoal; to char. [R.]
Charcoal of roots, coaled into great pieces. Bacon.

2. To mark or delineate with charcoal. Camden.

3. To supply with coal; as, to coal a steamer.

COAL
Coal, v. i.

Defn: To take in coal; as, the steaer coaled at Southampton.

COAL-BLACK
Coal"-black, a.

Defn: As black as coal; jet black; very black. Dryden.

COALERY
Coal"er*y, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Colliery.

COALESCE
Co`a*lesce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coalesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coalescing.] Etym: [L. coalescere, coalitium; co- + alescere to grow
up, incho. fr. alere to nourish. See Aliment, n.]

1. To grow together; to unite by growth into one body; as, the parts
separated by a wound coalesce.

2. To unite in one body or product; to combine into one body or
community; as, vapors coalesce.
The Jews were incapable of coalescing with other nations. Campbell.
Certain combinations of ideas that, once coalescing, could not be
shaken loose. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- See Add.

COALESCENCE
Co`a*les"cence, n.

Defn: The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the act
of uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of being
united; union; concretion.

COALESCENT
Co`a*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. coalescens, p. pr.]

Defn: Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion of
similar parts; uniting.

COALFISH
Coal"fish`, n. Etym: [Named from the dark color of the back.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The pollock; -- called also, coalsey, colemie, colmey, coal
whiting, etc. See Pollock.
(b) The beshow or candlefish of Alaska.
(c) The cobia.

COALGOOSE
Coal"goose`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cormorant; -- so called from its black color.

COALITE
Co"a*lite, v. i. Etym: [L. coalitus, p. p. of coalescere. See
Coalesce.]

Defn: To unite or coalesce. [Obs.]
Let them continue to coalite. Bolingbroke.

COALITE
Co"a*lite, v. t.

Defn: To cause to unite or coalesce. [Obs.]
Time has by degrees blended . . . and coalited the conquered with the
conquerors. Burke.

COALITION
Co`a*li"tion, n. Etym: [LL. coalitio: cf. F. coalition. See
Coalesce.]

1. The act of coalescing; union into a body or mass, as of separate
bodies or parts; as, a coalition of atoms. Bentley.

2. A combination, for temporary purposes, of persons, parties, or
states, having different interests.
A coalition of the puritan and the blackleg. J. Randolph.
The coalition between the religious and worldly enemies of popery.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Alliance; confederation; confederacy; league; combination;
conjunction; conspiracy; union.

COALITIONER
Co`a*li"tion*er, n.

Defn: A coalitionist.

COALITIONIST
Co`a*li"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocates
coalition.

CO-ALLY
Co`-al*ly", n.; pl. Co-allies.

Defn: A joint ally. Kent.

COAL-METER
Coal"-me`ter, n.

Defn: A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter.
Simmonds.

COALMOUSE
Coal"mouse`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit.

COALPIT
Coal"pit`, n.

1. A pit where coal is dug.

2. A place where charcoal is made. [U. S.]

COALSACK
Coal"sack`, n.  [Coal + 2d sack.] (Astron.)

Defn: Any one of the spaces in the Milky Way which are very black,
owing to the nearly complete absence of stars; esp., the large space
near the Southern Cross sometimes called the Black Magellanic Cloud.

COAL TAR
Coal" tar`.

Defn: A thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by the distillation of
bituminous coal in the manufacture of illuminating gas; used for
making printer's ink, black varnish, etc. It is a complex mixture
from which many substances have been obtained, especially
hydrocarbons of the benzene or aromatic series.

Note: Among its important ingredients are benzene, aniline, phenol,
naphtalene, anthracene, etc., which are respectively typical of many
dye stuffs, as the aniline dyes, the phthaleïns, indigo, alizarin,
and many flavoring extracts whose artificial production is a matter
of great commercial importance.

COAL-WHIPPER
Coal"-whip`per, n.

Defn: One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship. [Eng.] Dickens.

COAL WORKS
Coal" works.

Defn: A place where coal is dug, including the machinery for raising
the coal.

COALY
Coal"y, a. Etym: [From Coal, n.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the
nature of coal.

COAMINGS
Coam"ings, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Comb a crest.] (Naut.)

Defn: Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, or
other opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp.
the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from the
transverse head ledges. [Written also combings.]

COANNEX
Co`an*nex", v. t.

Defn: To annex with something else.

COAPTATION
Co`ap*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. coaptatio, fr. coaptare to fit together;
co- + aptare. See Aptate.]

Defn: The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of a
broken bone or dislocated joint.

COARCT; COARCTATE
Co*arct", Co*arc"tate, v. t. Etym: [See Coarctate, a.]

1. To press together; to crowd; to straiten; to confine closely.
[Obs.] Bacon.

2. To restrain; to confine. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

COARCTATE
Co*arc"tate, a. Etym: [L. coarctatus, p. p. of coarctare to press
together; co- + arctare to press together, from arctus, p. p. See
Arctation.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pressed together; closely connected; -- applied to insects
having the abdomen separated from the thorax only by a constriction.
Coarctate pupa (Zoöl.), a pupa closely covered by the old larval
skin, as in most Diptera.

COARCTATION
Co`arc*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. coarctatio.]

1. Confinement to a narrow space. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. Pressure; that which presses. [Obs.] Ray.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice.

COARSE
Coarse, a. [Compar. Coarser; superl. Coarsest.] Etym: [As this word
was anciently written course, or cours, it may be an abbreviation of
of course, in the common manner of proceeding, common, and hence,
homely, made for common domestic use, plain, rude, rough, gross, e.
g., "Though the threads be course." Gascoigne. See Course.]

1. Large in bulk, or composed of large parts or particles; of
inferior quality or appearance; not fine in material or close in
texture; gross; thick; rough; -- opposed to fine; as, coarse sand;
coarse thread; coarse cloth; coarse bread.

2. Not refined; rough; rude; unpolished; gross; indelicate; as,
coarse manners; coarse language.
I feel Of what coarse metal ye are molded. Shak.
To copy, in my coarse English, his beautiful expressions. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Large; thick; rough; gross; blunt; uncouth; unpolished;
inelegant; indelicate; vulgar.

COARSE-GRAINED
Coarse"-grained`, a.

Defn: Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting in
refinement.

COARSELY
Coarse"ly, adv.

Defn: In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly;
meanly.

COARSEN
Coars"en, v. t.

Defn: To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character. [R.]
Graham.

COARSENESS
Coarse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; melegance;
vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, or
language. "The coarseness of the sackcloth." Dr. H. More.
Pardon the coarseness of the illustration. L'Estrange.
A coarseness and vulgarity in all the proceedings. Burke.

COARTICULATION
Co`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The unoin or articulation of bones to form a joint.

CO-ASSESSOR
Co`-as*sess"or, n.

Defn: A joint assessor.

COAST
Coast, n. Etym: [OF. coste, F. côte, rib, hill, shore, coast, L.
costa rib, side. Cf. Accost, v. t., Cutlet.]

1. The side of a thing. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton.

2. The exterior line, limit, or border of a country; frontier border.
[Obs.]
From the river, the river Euphrates, even to the uttermost sea, shall
your coast be. Deut. xi. 24.

3. The seashore, or land near it.
He sees in English ships the Holland coast. Dryden.
We the Arabian coast do know At distance, when the species blow.
Waller.
The coast is clear, the danger is over; no enemy in sight. Dryden.
Fig.: There are no obstacles. "Seeing that the coast was clear,
Zelmane dismissed Musidorus." Sir P. Sidney. Coast guard. (a) A body
of men originally employed along the coast to prevent smuggling; now,
under the control of the admiralty, drilled as a naval reserve.
[Eng.] (b) The force employed in lifesaving stations along the
seacoast. [U. S.] -- Coast rat (Zoöl.), a South African mammal
(Bathyergus suillus), about the size of a rabbit, remarkable for its
extensive burrows; -- called also sand mole.
 -- Coast waiter, a customhouse officer who superintends the landing
or shipping of goods for the coast trade. [Eng.]

COAST
Coast, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Coasting.] Etym:
[OE. costien, costeien, costen, OF. costier, costoier, F. côtoyer,
fr. Of. coste coast, F. côte. See Coast, n.]

1. To draw or keep near; to approach. [Obs.]
Anon she hears them chant it lustily, And all in haste she coasteth
to the cry. Shak.

2. To sail by or near the shore.
The ancients coasted only in their navigation. Arbuthnot.

3. To sail from port to port in the same country.

4. Etym: [Cf. OF. coste, F. côte, hill, hillside.]

Defn: To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice.
[Local, U. S.]

COAST
Coast, v. t.

1. To draw near to; to approach; to keep near, or by the side of.
[Obs.] Hakluyt.

2. To sail by or near; to follow the coast line of.
Nearchus, . . . not knowing the compass, was fain to coast that
shore. Sir T. Browne.

3. To conduct along a coast or river bank. [Obs.]
The Indians . . . coasted me along the river. Hakluyt.

COASTAL
Coast"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cast.

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
Coast and Geodetic Survey.

Defn: A bureau of the United States government charged with the
topographic and hydrographic survey of the coast and the execution of
belts of primary triangulation and lines of precise leveling in the
interior. It now belongs to the Department of Commerce and Labor.

COASTER
Coast"er, n.

1. A vessel employed in sailing along a coast, or engaged in the
coasting trade.

2. One who sails near the shore.

COASTING
Coast"ing, a.

Defn: Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along a
coast. Coasting trade, trade carried on by water between neighboring
ports of the same country, as distinguished fron foreign trade or
trade involving long voyages.
 -- Coasting vessel, a vessel employed in coasting; a coaster.

COASTING
Coast"ing, n.

1. A sailing along a coast, or from port to port; a carrying on a
coasting trade.

2. Sliding down hill; sliding on a sled upon snow or ice. [Local, U.
S.]

COASTWISE; COASTWAYS
Coast"wise`, Coast"ways`, adv.

Defn: By way of, or along, the coast.

COAT
Coat (; 110), n. Etym: [OF. cote, F. cotte, petticoat, cotte d'armes
coat of arms, cotte de mailles coat of mail, LL. cota, cotta, tunic,
prob. of German origin; cf. OHG. chozzo coarse mantle, G. klotze, D.
kot, hut, E. cot. Cf. Cot a hut.]

1. An outer garment fitting the upper part of the body; especially,
such a garment worn by men.
Let each His adamantine coat gird well. Milton.

2. A petticoat. [Obs.] "A child in coats." Locke.

3. The habit or vesture of an order of men, indicating the order or
office; cloth.
Men of his coat should be minding their prayers. Swift.
She was sought by spirits of richest coat. Shak.

4. An external covering like a garment, as fur, skin, wool, husk, or
bark; as, the horses coats were sleek.
Fruit of all kinds, in coat Rough or smooth rined, or bearded husk,
or shell. Milton.

5. A layer of any substance covering another; a cover; a tegument;
as, the coats of the eye; the coats of an onion; a coat of tar or
varnish.

6. Same as Coat of arms. See below.
Hark, countrymen! either renew the fight, Or tear the lions out of
England's coat. Shak.

7. A coat card. See below. [Obs.]
Here's a trick of discarded cards of us! We were ranked with coats as
long as old master lived. Massinger.
Coat armor. See under Armor.
 -- Coat of arms (Her.), a translation of the French cotte d'armes, a
garment of light material worn over the armor in the 15th and 16th
centuries. This was often charged with the heraldic bearings of the
wearer. Hence, an heraldic achievement; the bearings of any person,
taken together.
 -- Coat card, a card bearing a coated figure; the king, queen, or
knave of playing cards. "`I am a coat card indeed.' `Then thou must
needs be a knave, for thou art neither king nor queen.'" Rowley.
 -- Coat link, a pair of buttons or studs joined by a link, to hold
together the lappels of a double-breasted coat; or a button with a
loop for a single-breasted coat.
 -- Coat of mail, a defensive garment of chain mail. See Chain mail,
under Chain.
 -- Mast coat (Naut.), a piece of canvas nailed around a mast, where
it passes through the deck, to prevent water from getting below.
 -- Sail coat (Naut.), a canvas cover laced over furled sails, and
the like, to keep them dry and clean.

COAT
Coat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coated; p. pr. & vb. n. Coating.]

1. To cover with a coat or outer garment.

2. To cover with a layer of any substance; as, to coat a jar with tin
foil; to coat a ceiling.

COATEE
Coat*ee", n.

Defn: A coat with short flaps.

COATI
Co*a"ti ( or , n. Etym: [From the native name: cf. F. coati.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the
raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.

Note: The red coati (N. socialis), called also coati mondi, inhabits
Mexico and Central America. The brown coati (N. narica) is found in
Surinam and Brazil.

COATING
Coat"ing, n.

1. A coat or covering; a layer of any substance, as a cover or
protection; as, the coating of a retort or vial.

2. Cloth for coats; as, an assortment of coatings.

COATLESS
Coat"less, a.

Defn: Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat.

COAX
Coax (; 110), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coaxed; p. pr. & vb. n. Coaxing.]
Etym: [Cf. OE. cokes fool, a person easily imposed upon, W. coeg
empty, foolish; F. coquin knave, rogue.]

Defn: To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or
fondling; to wheedle; to soothe.

Syn.
 -- To wheedle; cajole; flatter; persuade; entice.

COAX
Coax, n.

Defn: A simpleton; a dupe. [Obs.] Beau & Fl.

COAXATION
Co`ax*a"tion, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The act of croaking. [R] Dr. H. More.

COAXER
Coax"er, n.

Defn: One who coaxes.

COAXINGLY
Coax"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coaxing manner; by coaxing.

COB
Cob, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. cop, copp, head, top, D. kop, G. kopf, kuppe,
LL. cuppa cup (cf. E. brainpan), and also W. cob tuft, spider, cop,
copa, top, summit, cobio to thump. Cf. Cop top, Cup, n.]

1. The top or head of anything. [Obs.] W. Gifford.

2. A leader or chief; a conspicuous person, esp. a rich covetous
person. [Obs.]
All cobbing country chuffs, which make their bellies and their bags
their god, are called rich cobs. Nash.

3. The axis on which the kernels of maize or indian corn grow. [U.
S.]

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young herring. B. Jonson.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish; -- also called miller's thumb.

7. A short-legged and stout horse, esp. one used for the saddle.
[Eng.]

8. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sea mew or gull; esp., the black-backed gull (Larus marinus).
[Written also cobb.]

9. A lump or piece of anything, usually of a somewhat large size, as
of coal, or stone.

10. A cobnut; as, Kentish cobs. See Cobnut. [Eng.]

11. Clay mixed with straw. [Prov. Eng.]
The poor cottager contenteth himself with cob for his walls, and
thatch for his covering. R. Carew.

12. A punishment consisting of blows inflicted on the buttocks with a
strap or a flat piece of wood. Wright.

13. A Spanish coin formerly current in Ireland, worth abiut 4s. 6d.
[Obs.] Wright. Cob coal, coal in rounded lumps from the size of an
egg to that of a football; -- called also cobbles. Grose.
 -- Cob loaf, a crusty, uneven loaf, rounded at top. Wright.
 -- Cob money, a kind of rudely coined gold and silver money of
Spanish South America in the eighteenth century. The coins were of
the weight of the piece of eight, or one of its aliquot parts.

COB
Cob, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cobbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Cobbing.]

1. To strike [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. (Mining)

Defn: To break into small pieces, as ore, so as to sort out its
better portions. Raymond.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To punish by striking on the buttocks with a strap, a flat
piece of wood, or the like.

COBAEA
Co*bæ"a, n. Etym: [Named after D. Cobo, a Spanish botanist.]

Defn: A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America.
C. scandens is a consrvatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers.

COBALT
Co"balt (; 277, 74), n. Etym: [G. kobalt, prob. fr. kobold, kobel,
goblin, MHG. kobolt; perh. akin to G. koben pigsty, hut, AS. cofa
room, cofgodas household gods, Icel. kofi hut. If so, the ending -old
stands for older -walt, -wald, being the same as -ald in E. herald
and the word would mean ruler or governor in a house, house spirit,
the metal being so called by miners, because it was poisonous and
troublesome. Cf. Kobold, Cove, Goblin.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not
easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co.

Note: It occurs in nature in combination with arsenic, sulphur, and
oxygen, and is obtained from its ores, smaltite, cobaltite, asbolite,
etc. Its oxide colors glass or any flux, as borax, a fine blue, and
is used in the manufacture of smalt. It is frequently associated with
nickel, and both are characteristic ingredients of meteoric iron.

2. A commercial name of a crude arsenic used as fly poison. Cobalt
bloom. Same as Erythrite.
 -- Cobalt blue, a dark blue pigment consisting of some salt of
cobalt, as the phosphate, ignited with alumina; -- called also cobalt
ultramarine, and Thenard's blue.
 -- Cobalt crust, earthy arseniate of cobalt.
 -- Cobalt glance. (Min.) See Cobaltite.
 -- Cobalt green, a pigment consisting essentially of the oxides of
cobalt and zinc; -- called also Rinman's green.
 -- Cobalt yellow (Chem.), a yellow crystalline powder, regarded as a
double nitrite of cobalt and potassium.

COBALTIC
Co*balt"ic (; 74), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cobaltique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said
especially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as,
cobaltic oxide. Luteo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series
of complex yellow compounds of ammonia and cobaltic salts.
 -- Roseo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series of complex
red compounds of cobalt and ammonia. Modifications of these are the
purpureo-cobaltic compounds.

COBALTIFEROUS
Co`balt*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Cobalt + -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Containing cobalt.

COBALTINE; COBALTITE
Co"balt*ine, Co"balt*ite n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a nearly silver-white color, composed of arsenic,
sulphur, and cobalt.

COBALTOUS
Co*balt"ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said
esp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence.
Cobaltous chloride, a crystalline compound, CoCl2, of a pale rose
color when hydrous, blue when dehydrated. Its solution is used for a
sympathetic ink, the writing being nearly colorless when dried in the
air, owing to absorbed moisture, and becoming bright blue when
warmed.

COBBING
Cob"bing, a.

Defn: Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n., 2. [Obs.] Withals (1608).

COBBLE
Cob"ble, n.

Defn: A fishing boat. See Coble.

COBBLE
Cob"ble, n. Etym: [From Cob a lump. See Cob, n., 9, and cf. Copple,
Copplestone.]

1. A cobblestone. "Their slings held cobbles round." Fairfax.

2. pl.

Defn: Cob coal. See under Cob.

COBBLE
Cob"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cobbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Cobbling.]
Etym: [OF. cobler, copler, to join or knit together, couple, F.
coupler, L. copulare to couple, join. Cf. Couple, n. & v. t.]

1. To make or mend coarsely; to patch; to botch; as, to cobble shoes.
Shak. "A cobbled saddle." Thackeray.

2. To make clumsily. "Cobbled rhymes." Dryden.

3. To pave with cobblestones.

COBBLER
Cob"bler, n.

1. A mender of shoes. Addison.

2. A clumsy workman. Shak.

3. A beverage. See Sherry cobbler, under Sherry. Cobbler fish
(Zoöl.), a marine fish (Blepharis crinitus) of the Atlantic. The name
alludes to its threadlike fin rays.

COBBLESTONE
Cob"ble*stone`, n.

Defn: A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; a
small boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes.

COBBY
Cob"by, a. Etym: [From Cob, n.]

1. Headstrong; obstinate. [Obs.] Brockett.

2. Stout; hearty; lively. [Obs.]

COBELLIGERENT
Co`bel*lig"er*ent, a.

Defn: Carryng on war in conjunction with another power.

COBELLIGERENT
Co`bel*lig"er*ent, n.

Defn: A nation or state that carries on war in connection with
another.

COBIA
Co"bi*a, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater;
-- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish.

COBIRON
Cob"i`ron, n. Etym: [From Cob the top.]

Defn: An andiron with a knob at the top. Bacon.

COBISHOP
Co`bish"op, n.

Defn: A joint or coadjutant bishop. Ayliffe.

COBLE
Co"ble, n. Etym: [AS. cuopel; cf. W. ceubal skiff, ferryboat.]

Defn: A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder
extending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originally
used on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England.

COBNUT
Cob"nut`, n.

1. (Com.)

Defn: A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.

2. A game played by children with nuts.

COBOOSE
Co*boose", n.

Defn: See Caboose.

COBOURG
Co"bourg, n. Etym: [Named from the town of Coburg in Germany.]

Defn: A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.

COBRA
Co"bra, n.

Defn: See Copra.

COBRA
Co"bra, n.

Defn: The cobra de capello.

COBRA DE CAPELLO
Co"bra de ca*pel"lo. Etym: [Pg., serpent of the hood.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hooded snake (Naia tripudians), a highly venomous serpent
inhabiting India.

COBSTONE
Cob"stone`, n.

Defn: Cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.]

COBSWAN
Cob"swan`, n.

Defn: A large swan. B. Jonson.

COBWALL
Cob"wall`, n. Etym: [Cob clay mixed with straw + wall.]

Defn: A wall made of clay mixed with straw.

COBWEB
Cob"web`, n. Etym: [Cob a spider + web.]

1. The network spread by a spider to catch its prey.

2. A snare of insidious meshes designed to catch the ignorant and
unwary.
I can not but lament thy splendid wit Entangled in the cobwebs of the
schools. Cowper.

3. That which is thin and unsubstantial, or flimsy and worthless;
rubbish.
The dust and cobwebs of that uncivil age. Sir P. Sidney.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European spotted flycatcher. Cobweb lawn, a fine linen,
mentioned in 1640 as being in pieces of fifteen yards. Beck. Draper's
Dict.
Such a proud piece of cobweb lawn. Beau. & Fl.
Cobweb micrometer, a micrometer in which threads of cobwed are
substituted for wires.

COBWEBBED
Cob"webbed`, a.

Defn: Abounding in cobwebs. "The cobwebbed cottage." Young.

COBWEBBY
Cob"web`by, a.

Defn: Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.

COBWORK
Cob"work`, a.

Defn: Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the ends
dovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marine
work, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, a
cobwork dock or breakwater.

COCA
Co"ca, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. native name.]

Defn: The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca).
In med., called Erythroxylon.

Note: Coca leaves resemble tea leaves in size, shape, and odor, and
are chewed (with an alkali) by natives of Peru and Bolivia to impart
vigor in prolonged exertion, or to sustain strength in absence of
food. Mexican coca, an American herb (Richardsonia scabra), yielding
a nutritious fodder. Its roots are used as a substitute for
ipecacuanha.

COCAGNE
Coc*agne", n. Etym: [F. cocagne, pays de cocagne; of uncertian
origin, cf. Prov. F. couque cake, Catal. coca, L. coquere to cook; as
if the houses in this country were covered with cakes. Cf. Cook,
Cockney.]

1. An imaginary country of idleness and luxury.

2. The land of cockneys; cockneydom; -- a term applied to London and
its suburbs. Smart.

COCAINE
Co"ca*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves of
coca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkable
for producing local insensibility to pain.

COCAINISM
Co*ca"in*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition produced by the habitual and excessive use
of cocaine. -- Co*ca"in*ist, n.

COCAINIZE
Co*ca"in*ize, v. t.

Defn: To treat or anæsthetize with cocaine. -- Co*ca`in*i*za"tion
(#), n.

COCCIFEROUS
Coc*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. coccum a berry + -ferous. See Coccus.]

Defn: Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferrous
trees or plants.

COCCINELLA
Coc`ci*nel"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. coccineus scarlet-colored. See
Cochoneal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small beetles of many species. They and their larvæ
feed on aphids or plant lice, and hence are of great benefit to man.
Also called ladybirds and ladybugs.

COCCOBACTERIUM
Coc`co*bac*te"ri*um, n.; pl. Coccobacteria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
bacterium. So called from its round shape.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism,
generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter.

COCCOLITE
Coc"co*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. coccalite.] (Min.)

Defn: A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color.

COCCOLITH
Coc"co*lith, n. Etym: [Gr. -lith.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable,
often abundant in deep-sea mud.

COCCOSPHERE
Coc"co*sphere, n. Etym: [Gr. sphere.] (Biol.)

Defn: A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up into
coccoliths.

COCCOSTEUS
Coc*cos"te*us, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broad
plates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.

COCCULUS INDICUS
Coc"cu*lus In"di*cus, n. Etym: [NL. cocculus (dim. of L. coccum
kermes berry) + L. Indicus of India.] (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit or berry of the Anamirta Cocculus, a climbing plant
of the East Indies. It is a poisonous narcotic and stimulant.

COCCUS
Coc"cus, n.; pl. Cocci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cochineal.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of hemipterous insects, including scale insects, and
the cochineal insect (Coccus cacti).

3. (Biol.)

Defn: A form of bacteria, shaped like a globule.

COCCYGEAL
Coc*cyg"e*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebræ.
Coccygeal glands (Zoöl.) , glands situated at the base of the tail of
birds. They secrete the oil with which the plumage is dressed.

COCCYGEOUS
Coc*cyg"e*ous, a.

Defn: Coccygeal. [R.]

COCCYX
Coc"cyx, n.; pl. L. Coccyges. Etym: [L., cuckoo, Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and
tailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebræ more or less
consolidated.

COCHINEAL
Coch"i*neal, Etym: [Sp. cochinilla, dim. from L. coccineus, coccinus,
scarlet, fr. coccum the kermes berry, G. Quercus coccifera; but cf.
also Sp. cochinilla wood louse, dim. of cochina sow, akin to F.
cochon pig.]

Defn: A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of the
Coccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., and
found on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.

Note: These insects are gathered from the plant, killed by the
application of heat, and exposed to the sun to dry. When dried they
resemble small, rough berries or seeds, of a brown or purple color,
and form the cochineal of the shops, which is used for making
carmine, and also as a red dye.

Note: Cochineal contains as its essential coloring matter carminic
acid, a purple red amorphous substance which yields carmine red.

COCHINEAL FIG
Coch"i*neal fig, (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of Central and Southern Anerica, of the Cactus familly,
extensively cultivated for the sake of the cochineal insect, which
lives on it.

COCHIN FOWL
Co"chin fowl`, (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from Cochin
China (Anam).

COCHLEA
Coch"le*a, n. Etym: [L., a snail, or snail shell, Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which is
elongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals. See Ear.

COCHLEAR
Coch"le*ar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cochlea.

COCHLEARE
Coch`le*a"re, n. Etym: [L.]

1. A spoon. Andrews.

2. (Med)

Defn: A spoonful. Dungleson.

COCHLEARIFORM
Coch`le*ar"i*form, a. Etym: [Cochleare + -form.]

Defn: Spoon-shaped.

COCHLEARY
Coch"le*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. cochlearum penfor snails (meaning formerly
given, snail shell). See Cjchlea.]

Defn: Same as Cochleate.

COCHLEATE; COCHLEATED
Coch"le*ate, Coch"le*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. cochleatus spiral or screw-
formed. See Cochlea.]

Defn: Having the form of a snail shell; spiral; turbinated.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [AS. coc; of unkown origin, perh. in imitation of the
cry of the cock. Cf. Chicken.]

1. The male of birds, particulary of gallinaceous or domestic fowls.

2. A vane in the shape of a cock; a weathercock.
Drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks! Shak.

3. A chief man; a leader or master. [Humorous]
Sir Andrew is the cock of the club, since he left us. Addison.

4. The crow of a cock, esp. the first crow in the morning; cockcrow.
[Obs.]
He begins at curfew, and walks till the first cock. Shak.

5. A faucet or valve.

Note: Jonsons says, "The handly probably had a cock on the top;
things that were contrived to turn seem anciently to have had that
form, whatever was the reason." Skinner says, because it used to be
constructed in forma critæ galli, i.e., in the form of a cock's comb.

6. The style of gnomon of a dial. Chambers.

7. The indicator of a balance. Johnson.

8. The bridge piece which affords a bearing for the pivot of a
balance in a clock or watch. Knight. Ball cock. See under Ball.
 -- Chaparral cock. See under Chaparral.
 -- Cock and bull story, an extravagant, boastful story; a canard.
 -- Cock of the plains (Zoöl.) See Sage cock.
 -- Cock of the rock (Zoöl.), a South American bird (Rupicola
aurantia) having a beautiful crest.
 -- Cock of the walk, a chief or master; the hero of the hour; one
who has overcrowed, or got the better of, rivals or competitors.
 -- Cock of the woods. See Capercailzie.

COCK
Cock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Cocking.] Etym:
[Cf. Gael. coc to cock.]

1. To set erect; to turn up.
Our Lightfoot barks, and cocks his ears. Gay.
Dick would cock his nose in scorn. Swift.

2. To shape, as a hat, by turning up the brim.

3. To set on one side in a pert or jaunty manner.
They cocked their hats in each other's faces. Macaulay.

4. To turn (the eye) obliquely and partially close its lid, as an
expression of derision or insinuation. Cocked hat. (a) A hat with
large, stiff flaps turned up to a peaked crown, thus making its form
triangular; -- called also three-cornered hat. (b) A game similar to
ninepins, except that only three pins are used, which are set up at
the angles of a triangle.

COCK
Cock, v. i.

Defn: To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing. Addison.

COCK
Cock, n.

Defn: The act of cocking; also, the turn so given; as, a cock of the
eyes; to give a hat a saucy cock.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [It. cocca notch of an arrow.]

1. The notch of an arrow or crossbow.

2. The hammer in the lock of a firearm. At cock, At full cock, with
the hammer raised and ready to fire; -- said of firearms, also,
jocularly, of one prepared for instant action.
 -- At half cock. See under Half.
 -- Cock feather (Archery), the feather of an arrow at right angles
to the direction of the cock or notch. Nares.

COCK
Cock, v. t.

Defn: To draw the hammer of (a firearm) fully back and set it for
firing.

COCK
Cock, v. i.

Defn: To draw back the hammer of a firearm, and set it for firing.
Cocked, fired, and missed his man. Byron.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kökkr lump, Dan. kok heap, or E. cock to
set erect.]

Defn: A small concial pile of hay.

COCK
Cock, v. t.

Defn: To put into cocks or heaps, as hay.
Under the cocked hay. Spenser.

COCK
Cock, n. Etym: [Of. coque, F. coche, a small vessel, L. concha muscle
shell, a vessel. See Coach, and cf.Cog

Defn: A small boat.
Yond tall anchoring bark [appears] Diminished to her cock; her cock,
a buoy Almost too small for sight. Shak.

COCK
Cock, n.

Defn: A corruption or disguise of the word God, used in oaths. [Obs.]
"By cock and pie." Shak.

COCKADE
Cock*ade", n. Etym: [F. cocarble, fr. coquard vain, OF. coquart, fr.
coq cock, prob. of imitative origin. The ornament is so named from
its resemblance to the crest of a cock. Cf. Coquette.]

Defn: A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, and
generally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military or
naval service, or party allegiance, and in England as a part of the
livery to indicate that the wearer is the servant of a military or
naval officer.
Seduced by military liveries and cockades. Burke.

COCKADED
Cock*ad"ed, a.

Defn: Wearing a cockade. Young.

COCK-A-HOOP
Cock`-a-hoop", a.

Defn: Boastful; defiant; exulting. Also used adverbially.

COCKAL
Cock"al, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. A game played with sheep's bones instead of dice [Obs.]

2. The bone used in playing the game; -- called also huckle bone.
[Obs.] Nares.
A little transverse bone Which boys and bruckeled children call
(Playing for points and pins) cockal. Herrick.

COCKALEEKIE
Cock`a*leek"ie, n. Etym: [From cock + leek.]

Defn: A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned,
and boiled with leeks and prunes.

COCKAMAROO
Cock`a*ma*roo", n.

Defn: The Russian variety of bagatelle.

COCKATEEL
Cock"a*teel, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novæ-Hollandiæ); -- so called
from its note.

COCKATOO
Cock`a*too, n. Etym: [Malayan kakatua.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinæ, having
a short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with a
crest, which can be raised or depressed at will. There are several
genera and many species; as the broad-crested (Plictolophus, or
Cacatua, cristatus), the sulphur-crested (P. galeritus), etc. The
palm or great black cockatoo of Australia is Microglossus aterrimus.
Cock"a*trice, n. Etym: [OF. cocatrice crocodile, F. cocatrix,
cocatrice. The word is a corruption from the same source as E.
crocodile, but was confused with cock the bird, F. coq, whence arose
the fable that the animal was produced from a cock's egg. See
Crocodile.]

1. A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal.
See Basilisk.
That bare vowel, I, shall poison more Than the death-darting eye of
cockatrice. Shak.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A representation of this serpent. It has the head, wings, and
legs of a bird, and tail of a serpent.

3. (Script.)

Defn: A venomous serpent which which cannot now be identified.
The weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's

Note: [Rev. Ver. basilisk's] den. Is. xi. 8.

4. Any venomous or deadly thing.
This little cockatrice of a king. Bacon.

COCKATRICE
Cock"a*trice (-tris; 277), n. [OF. cocatrice crocodile, F. cocatrix,
cocatrice. The word is a corruption from the same source as E.
crocodile, but was confused with cock the bird, F. coq, whence arose
the fable that the animal was produced from a cock's egg. See
Crocodile.]

1. A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal.
See Basilisk.

That bare vowel, I, shall poison more
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
Shak.

2. (Her.) A representation of this serpent. It has the head, wings,
and legs of a bird, and tail of a serpent.

3. (Script.) A venomous serpent which which cannot now be identified.

The weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's [Rev. Ver.
basilisk's] den.
Is. xi. 8.

4. Any venomous or deadly thing.

This little cockatrice of a king.
Bacon.

COCKBILL
Cock"bill, v. t. Etym: [See Cock to set erect.] (Naut.)

Defn: To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, to
cockbill the yards as a sign of mourning. To cockbill the anchor, to
suspend it from the cathead preparatory to letting it go. See
Acockbill.

COCKBOAT
Cock"boat`, n. Etym: [See Cock a boat.]

Defn: A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.

COCK-BRAINED
Cock"-brained`, a.

Defn: Giddy; rash. Milton.

COCKCHAFER
Cock"chaf`er, n. Etym: [See Chafer the beetle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and allied
genera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.

COCKCROW; COCKCROWING
Cock"crow, Cock"crow`ing, n.

Defn: The time at which cooks first crow; the early morning.

COCKER
Cock"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cockered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cockering.]
Etym: [OE. cokeren; cf. W. cocru to indulge, fondle, E. cock the
bird, F. coqueliner to dandle (Cotgrave), to imitate the crow of a
cock, to run after the girls, and E. cockle, v.]

Defn: Th treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to
pamper.
Cocker thy child and he shall make thee afraid. Ecclesiasticus xxx.
9.
Poor folks cannot afford to cocker themselves up. J. Ingelow.

COCKER
Cock"er, n. Etym: [From Cock the bird.]

1. One given to cockfighting. [Obs.] Steele.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small dog of the spaniel kind, used for starting up
woodcocks, etc.

COCKER
Cock"er, n. Etym: [OE. coker qyiver, boot, AS. cocer quiver; akin to
G. köcher quiver, and perh. originally meaning receptacle, holder.
Cf. Quiver (for arrows).]

Defn: A rustic high shoe or half-boots. [Obs.] Drayton.

COCKEREL
Cock"er*el, n. Etym: [Prob. a double dim. of cock.]

Defn: A young cock.

COCKER SPANIEL
Cock"er span"iel.

Defn: One of a breed of small or medium-sized spaniels kept for
hunting or retrieving game or for household pets. They usually weigh
from eighteen to twenty-eight pounds. They have the head of fair
length, with square muzzle, the ears long and set low, the legs short
or of medium length, and the coat fine and silky, wavy but not curly.
Various colors are bred, as black, liver, red, black and white, black
and tan, etc.

COCKET
Cock"et, a. Etym: [F. coquet coquettish. See Coquette, n.]

Defn: Pert; saucy. [Obs.] Halliwell.

COCKET
Cock"et, n.

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A customhouse seal; a certified document given to a shopper as
a warrant that his goods have been duly enstered and have paid duty.

2. An office in a customhouse where goods intended for export are
entered. [Eng.]

3. A measure for bread. [Obs.] Blount.

COCKEYE
Cock"eye`, n. Etym: [From cock to turn up.]

Defn: A squinting eye. Forby.

COCKEYE
Cock"eye`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The socket in the ball of a millstone, which sits on the
cockhead.

COCKFIGHT
Cock"fight`, n.

Defn: A match or contest of gamecocks.

COCKFIGHTING
Cock"fight`ing, n.

Defn: The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight.

COCKFIGHTING
Cock"fight`ing, a.

Defn: Addicted to cockfighting.

COCKHEAD
Cock"head`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forming
a pivot on which the stone is balanced.

COCKHORSE
Cock"horse`, n.

1. A child's rocking-horse.
Ride a cockhorse to Banbury cross. Mother Goose.

2. A high or tall horse. [R.]

COCKHORSE
Cock"horse`, a.

1. Lifted up, as one is on a tall horse.

2. Lofty in feeling; exultant; pround; upstart.
Our painted fools and cockhorse peasantry. Marlowe.

COCKIELEEKIE
Cock`ie*leek"ie, n.

Defn: Same as Cockaleekie.

COCKING
Cock"ing, n.

Defn: Cockfighting. Ben Jonson.

COCKLE
Coc"kle, n. Etym: [OE. cockes cockles, AS. s sea cockles, prob, from
Celtic; cf. W. cocs cockles, Gael. cochull husk. Perh. influenced by
EF. coquille shell, a dim. from the root of E. conch. Cf. Coach.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium,
especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to
similar shells of other genera.

2. A cockleshell.

3. The mineral black tourmaline or schorl; -- so called by the
Cornish miners. Raymond.

4. The fire chamber of a furnace. [Eng.] Knight.

5. A hop-drying kiln; an oast. Knight.

6. The dome of a heating furnace. Knight. Cockle hat, a hat
ornamented with a cockleshell, the badge of a pilgrim. Shak.
 -- Cockle stairs, winding or spiral stairs.

COCKLE
Coc"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cockled; p. pr. & vb. n. Cockling.]
Etym: [Of uncertian origin.]

Defn: To cause to contract into wrinkles or ridges, as some kinds of
cloth after a wetting. Cockling sea, waves dashing against each other
with a short and quick motion. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

COCKLE
Coc"kle, n. Etym: [AS. coccel, cocel; cf. Gael. cogall tares, husks,
cockle.] (Bot.)
(a) A plant or weed that grows among grain; the corn rose (Luchnis
Githage).
(b) The Lotium, or darnel.

COCKLEBUR
Coc"kle*bur`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; one
of several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur.

COCKLED
Coc"kled, a.

Defn: Inclosed in a shell.
The tender horns of cockled snails. Shak.

COCKLED
Coc"kled, a.

Defn: Wrinkled; puckered.
Showers soon drench the camlet's cockled grain. Gay.

COCKLER
Coc"kler, n.

Defn: One who takes and sells cockles.

COCKLESHELL
Coc"kle*shell`, n.

1. One of the shells or valves of a cockle.

2. A light boat.
To board the cockleshell in those plunding waters. W. Black.

COCKLOFT
Cock"loft` n. Etym: [Prop., a loft where cocks roost.]

Defn: An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building.
Dryden. Swift.

COCKMASTER
Cock"mas`ter, n.

Defn: One who breeds gamecocks. L'Estrange.

COCKMATCH
Cock"match`, n.

Defn: A cockfight.

COCKNEY
Cock"ney, n.; pl. Cockneys. Etym: [OE. cocknay, cokenay, a spoiled
child, effeminate person, an egg; prob. orig. a cock's egg, a small
imperfect egg; OE. cok cock + nay, neye, for ey egg (cf. Newt), AS.
æg. See 1st Cock, Egg, n.]

1. An effeminate person; a spoilt child. "A young heir or cockney,
that is his mother's darling." Nash (1592).
This great lubber, the world, will prove a cockney. Shak.

2. A native or resident of the city of London; -- used contemptuosly.
A cockney in a rural village was stared at as much as if he had
entered a kraal of Hottentots. Macaulay.

COCKNEY
Cock"ney, a.

Defn: Of or relating to, or like, cockneys.

COCKNEYDOM
Cock"ney*dom, n.

Defn: The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.
Thackeray.

COCKNEYFY
Cock"ney*fy, v. t. Etym: [Cockney + -fy.]

Defn: To form with the manners or character of a cockney. [Colloq.]

COCKNEYISH
Cock"ney*ish, a.

Defn: Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys.

COCKNEYISM
Cock"ney*ism, n.

Defn: The charasteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.

COCK-PADDLE
Cock"-pad`dle, n. [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lumpfish. [Scot.]

COCK-PADLE
Cock"-pad`le, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lumpfish. [Scot.]

COCKPIT
Cock"pit`, n.

1. A pit, or inclosed area, for cockfights.
Henry the Eight had built . . . a cockpit. Macaulay.

2. The Privy Council room at Westminster; -- so called because built
on the site of the cockpit of Whitehall palace. Brande & C.

3. (Naut.)
(a) That part of a war vessel appropriated to the wounded during an
engagement.
(b) In yachts and other small vessels, a space lower than the rest of
the deck, which affords easy access to the cabin.

COCKROACH
Cock"roach, n. Etym: [Sp. cucaracha.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An orthopterus insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.

Note: The species are numerous, especially in hot countries. Those
most commonly infesting houses in Europe and North America are Blatta
orientalis, a large species often called black beetle, and the Croton
bug (Ectobia Germanica).

COCKSCOMB
Cocks"comb, n. Etym: [1st cock, n. + comb crest.]

1. See Coxcomb.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Celosia cristata), of many varieties, cultivated for
its broad, fantastic spikes of brilliant flowers; -- sometimes called
garden cockscomb. Also the Pedicularis, or lousewort, the Rhinanthus
Crista-galli, and the Onobrychis Crista-galli.

COCKSHEAD
Cocks"head`, n.

Defn: (Bot.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having small
spiny-crested pods.

COCKSHUT
Cock"shut`, n.

Defn: A kind of net to catch woodcock. [Obs.] Nares. Cockshut time or
light, evening twilight; nightfall; -- so called in allusion to the
tome at which the cockshut used to be spread. [Obs.] Shak. B. Jonson.

COCKSHY
Cock"shy`, n.

1. A game in which trinkets are set upon sticks, to be thrown at by
the players; -- so called from an ancient popular sport which
consisted in "shying" or throwing cudgels at live cocks.

2. An object at which stones are flung.
"Making a cockshy of him," replied the hideous small boy. Dickens.

COCKSPUR
Cock"spur, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of Cratægus, or hawthorn (C. Crus-galli), having
long, straight thorns; -- called also Cockspur thorn.

COCKSURE
Cock"sure`, a.

1. Perfectly safe. [Obs.]
We steal as in a castle, cocksure: . . . we walk invisible. Shak.

2. Quite certain. [Colloq.]
I throught myself cocksure of the horse which he readily promised me.
Pope.

COCKSWAIN
Cock"swain (, colloq. ), n. Etym: [Cock a boat + swain; hence, the
master of a boat.]

Defn: The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of a
boat and its crew.

COCKTAIL
Cock"tail`, n.

1. A beverage made of brandy, whisky, or gin, iced, flavored, and
sweetened. [U. S.]

2. (Stock Breeding)

Defn: A horse, not of pure breed, but having only one eighth or one
sixteenth impure blood in his veins. Darwin.

3. A mean, half-hearted fellow; a coward. [Slang, Eng.]
It was in the second affair that poor little Barney showed he was a
cocktail. Thackeray.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of rove beetle; -- so called from its habit of
elevating the tail.

COCKUP
Cock"up, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates
calcarifer); -- also called begti.

COCKWEED
Cock"weed, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Peppergrass. Johnson.

COCKY
Cock"y, a. Etym: [See Cocket.]

Defn: Pert. [Slang]

COCKYOLLY BIRD; COCKYOLY BIRD
Cock`y*ol"ly bird or Cock`y*ol"y bird. [Cf. Cock, fowl; Yellow.]

Defn: A pet name for any small bird.

COCO; COCO PALM
Co"co, n. or Co"co palm.

Defn: See Cocoa.

COCOA; COCOA PALM
Co"coa, n., Co"coa palm` Etym: [Sp. & Pg. coco cocoanut, in Sp. also,
cocoa palm. The Portuguese name is said to have been given from the
monkeylike face at the base of the nut, fr. Pg. coco a bugbear, an
ugly mask to frighten children. Cf., however, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A palm tree producing the cocoanut (Cocos nucifera). It grows
in nearly all tropical countries, attaining a height of sixty or
eighty feet. The trunk is without branches, and has a tuft of leaves
at the top, each being fifteen or twenty feet in length, and at the
base of these the nuts hang in clusters; the cocoanut tree.

COCOA
Co"coa, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. cacao.]

Defn: A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, and
used in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa or
cocoa shells. Cocoa shells, the husks which separate from the cacao
seeds in preparing them for use.

COCOANUT
Co"coa*nut`, n.

Defn: The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm. It yields an
agreeable milky liquid and a white meat or albumen much used as food
and in making oil.

COCOBOLO; COCOBOLAS
Co`co*bo"lo, Co`co*bo"las, n. Etym: [Sp. cocobolo.] (Bot.)

Defn: A very beautiful and hard wood, obtained in the West India
Islands. It is used in cabinetmaking, for the handles of tools, and
for various fancy articles.

COCOON
Co*coon", n. Etym: [F. cocon, dim. of coque shell of egge and
insects, fr. L. concha mussel shell. See Conch.]

1. An oblong case in which the silkworn lies in its chrysalis state.
It is formed of threads of silk spun by the worm just before leaving
the larval state. From these the silk of commerce is prepared.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The case constructed by any insect to contain its larva or pupa.
(b) The case of silk made by spiders to protect their eggs.
(c) The egg cases of mucus, etc., made by leeches and other worms.

COCOONERY
Co*coon"er*y, n.

Defn: A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and forming
cocoons.

COCTIBLE
Coc"ti*ble, a. Etym: [See Coctile.]

Defn: Capable of being cooked. Blount.

COCTILE
Coc"tile, a. Etym: [L. coctilis, fr. coguere. See Cook.]

Defn: Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick.

COCTION
Coc"tion, n. Etym: [L. coctio.]

1. Act of boiling.

2. (Med.)
(a) Digestion. [Obs.]
(b) The change which the humorists believed morbific matter undergoes
before elimination. [Obs.] Dunglison.

COCUS WOOD
Co"cus wood`.

Defn: A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musical
instruments.

COD
Cod, n. Etym: [AS. codd small bag; akin to Icel. koddi pillow, Sw.
kudde cushion; cf. W. cod, ciod, bag, shell.]

1. A husk; a pod; as, a peascod. [Eng.] Mortimer.

2. A small bag or pouch. [Obs.] Halliwell.

3. The scortum. Dunglison.

4. A pillow or cushion. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

COD
Cod, n. Etym: [Cf. G. gadde, and (in Heligoland) gadden, L. gadus
merlangus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), Taken in immense
numbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It is
especially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. It
is salted and dried in large quantities.

Note: There are several varieties; as shore cod, from shallow water;
bank cod, from the distant banks; and rock cod, which is found among
ledges, and is often dark brown or mottled with red. The tomcod is a
distinct species of small size. The bastard, blue, buffalo, or cultus
cod of the Pacific coast belongs to a distinct family. See Buffalo
cod, under Buffalo. Cod fishery, the business of fishing for cod.
 -- Cod line, an eighteen-thread line used in catching codfish.
McElrath.

CODA
Co"da, n. Etym: [It., tail, fr. L. cauda.] (Mus.)

Defn: A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a
composition.

CODDER
Cod"der, n.

Defn: A gatherer of cods or peas. [Obs. or Prov.] Johnson.

CODDING
Cod"ding, a.

Defn: Lustful. [Obs.] Shak.

CODDLE
Cod"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Coddling.]
Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. caddle to coax, spoil, fondle, and Cade, a. & v.
t.] [Written also codle.]

1. To parboil, or soften by boiling.
It [the guava fruit] may be coddled. Dampier.

2. To treat with excessive tenderness; to pamper.
How many of our English princes have been coddled at home by their
fond papas and mammas! Thackeray.
He [Lord Byron] never coddled his reputation. Southey.

CODDYMODDY
Cod"dy*mod"dy, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gull in the plumage of its first year.

CODE
Code, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. codex, caudex, the stock or

1. A body of law, sanctioned by legislation, in which the rules of
law to be specifically applied by the courts are set forth in
systematic form; a compilation of laws by public authority; a digest.

Note: The collection of laws made by the order of Justinian is
sometimes called, by way of eminence. "The Code" Wharton.

2. Any system of rules or regulations relating to one subject; as,
the medical code, a system of rules for the regulation of the
professional conduct of physicians; the naval code, a system of rules
for making communications at sea means of signals. Code civil or Code
Napoleon, a code enacted in France in 1803 and 1804, embodying the
law of rights of persons and of property generally. Abbot.

CODEFENDANT
Co`de*fend"ant, n.

Defn: A joint defendant. Blackstone.

CODEINE
Co*de"ine, n. Etym: [Gr. cod.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance,
C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, but
much feebler in its action; -- called also codeia.

CODETTA
Co*det"ta, n. Etym: [It., dim. of coda tail.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming part
of either; a short coda.

CODEX
Co"dex, n.; pl. Codices. Etym: [L. See Code.]

1. A book; a manuscript.

2. A collection or digest of laws; a code. Burrill.

3. An ancient manuscript of the Sacred Scriptures, or any part of
them, particularly the New Testament.

4. A collection of canons. Shipley.

CODFISH
Cod"fish, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of fish. Same as Cod.

CODGER
Codg"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Cadger.]

1. A miser or mean person.

2. A singular or odd person; -- a familiar, humorous, or depreciatory
appellation. [Colloq.]
A few of us old codgers met at the fireside. Emerson.

CODICAL
Cod"i*cal, a.

Defn: Ralating to a codex, or a code.

CODICIL
Cod"i*cil, n. Etym: [L. codicillus, dim. of codex: cf. F. codicille.
See Code.] (Law)

Defn: A clause added to a will.

CODICILLARY
Cod`i*cil"la*ry, a. Etym: [L. codicillaris, codicillarius.]

Defn: Of the nature of a codicil.

CODIFICATION
Co`di*fi*ca"tion ( or ), n. Etym: [Cf. F. codification.]

Defn: The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code.

CODIFIER
Co"di*fi`er ( or ), n.

Defn: One who codifies.

CODIFY
Co"di*fy ( or ; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Codified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Codifying.] Etym: [Code + -fy: cf. F. codifier.]

Defn: To reduce to a code, as laws.

CODILLA
Co*dil"la, n. Etym: [Cf. L. codicula a little tail, dim. of cauda
tail.] (Com.)

Defn: The coarse tow of flax and hemp. McElrath.

CODILLE
Co*dille", n. Etym: [F. codile.]

Defn: A term at omber, signifying that the game is won. Pope.

CODIST
Co"dist, n.

Defn: A codifier; a maker of codes. [R.]

CODLE
Co"dle, v. t.

Defn: See Coddle.

CODLIN; CODLING
Cod"lin, Cod"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. codæppel a quince.]
(a) An apple fit to stew or coddle.
(b) An immature apple.
A codling when 't is almost an apple. Shak.
Codling moth (Zoöl.), a small moth (Carpocapsa Pomonella), which in
the larval state (known as the apple worm) lives in apples, often
doing great damage to the crop.

CODLING
Cod"ling, n. Etym: [Dim. of cod the fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young cod; also, a hake.

COD LIVER
Cod" liv`er, n.

Defn: The liver of the common cod and allied species. Cod-liver oil,
an oil obtained fron the liver of the codfish, and used extensively
in medicine as a means of supplying the body with fat in cases of
malnutrition.

CODPIECE
Cod"piece`, n. Etym: [Cod, n., piece.]

Defn: A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly made
very conspicuous. Shak. Fosbroke.

COECILIAN
Coe*cil"i*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cæcilian.

COEDUCATION
Co*ed`u*ca"tion, n.

Defn: An educating together, as of persons of different sexes or
races. Co*ed`u*ca"tion*al (, a.

COEFFICACY
Co*ef"fi*ca*cy, n.

Defn: Joint efficacy.

COEFFICIENCY
Co`ef*fi"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Joint efficiency; coöperation. Glanvill.

COEFFICIENT
Co`ef*fi"cient, a.

Defn: Coöperating; acting together to produce an effect.
Co`ef*fi"cient*ly, adv.

COEFFICIENT
Co`ef*fi"cient, n.

1. That which unites in action with something else to produce the
same effect.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. coefficient.] (Math.)

Defn: A number or letter put before a letter or quantity, known or
unknown, to show how many times the latter is to be taken; as, 6x;
bx; here 6 and b are coefficients of x.

3. (Physics)

Defn: A number, commonly used in computation as a factor, expressing
the amount of some change or effect under certain fixed conditions as
to temperature, length, volume, etc.; as, the coefficient of
expansion; the coefficient of friction. Arbitrary coefficient
(Math.), a literal coefficient placed arbitrarily in an algebraic,
expression, the value of the coefficient being afterwards determined
by the conditions of the problem.

COEHORN
Coe"horn, n. Etym: [From its inventor, Baron Coehorn.] (Mil.)

Defn: A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles,
and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.

COELACANTH
Coel"a*canth ( or , a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes.

COELECTRON
Co`e*lec"tron, n.

Defn: See Electron.

COELENTERA; COELENTERATA
Coe*len"te*ra or Coe*len`te*ra"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive group of Invertebrata, mostly marine,
comprising the Anthozoa, Hydrozoa, and Ctenophora. The name implies
that the stomach and body cavities are one. The group is sometimes
enlarged so as to include the sponges.

COELENTERATE
Coe*len"ter*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Coelentra.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Coelentera.

COELIA
Coe"li*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A cavity.

Note: The word is applied to the ventricles of the brain, the
different venticles being indicated by prefixes like those
characterizing the parts of the brain in which the cavities are
found; as, epicoelia, mesocoelia, metacoelia, procoelia, etc. B. G.
Wilder.

COELIAC; CELIAC
Coe"li*ac, Ce"li*ac, a. Etym: [L. coeliacus, Gr.

Defn: Relating to the abdomen, or to the cavity of the abdomen.
Coeliac artery (Anat.), the artery which issues from the aorta just
below the diaphragm; -- called also coeliac axis.
 -- Coeliac flux, Coeliac passion (Med.), a chronic flux or diarrhea
of undigested food.

COELODONT
Coe"lo*dont, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards.
 -- n.

Defn: One of a group of lizards having hollow teeth.

COELOSPERMOUS
Coel`o*sper"mous ( or , a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpels
incurved at the ends, as in coriander seed.

COELUM
Coe"lum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: See Body cavity, under Body.

COEMPTION
Co*emp"tion, n. Etym: [L. coëmptio, fr. coëmere to buy up. See
Emption.]

Defn: The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity. [R.]
Bacon.

COENDOO
Co*en"doo, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, or Sphingurus,
prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.

COENENCHYM; COENENCHYMA
Coe*nen"chym, Coe*nen"chy*ma n. Etym: [NL. coenenchyma, fr. Gr.
parenchyma.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common tissue which unites the polyps or zooids of a
compound anthozoan or coral. It may be soft or more or less ossified.
See Coral.

COENESTHESIS
Coen`es*the"sis ( or ), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished from
the special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separate
organs, as the eye and ear. It is supposed to depend on the
ganglionic system.

COENOBITE
Coen"o*bite ( or ), n.

Defn: See Cenobite.

COENOECIUM
Coe*noe"ci*um ( or ), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common tissue which unites the various zooids of a
bryozoan.

COENOGAMY
Coe*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual
intercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes or
communistic societies. [Written also cenogamy.]

COENOSARC
Coen"o*sarc ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compound
hydroid. See Hydroidea.

COENURUS
Coe*nu"rus, n. Etym: [NL. fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval stage of a tapeworm (Tænia coenurus) which forms
bladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal disease
known as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.

Note: This bladder worm has on its surface numerous small heads, each
of which, when swallowed by a dog, becomes a mature tapeworm in the
dog's intestine.

COEQUAL
Co*e"qual, a. Etym: [L. coaequalis; co- + aequalis equal.]

Defn: Being on an equality in rank or power.
 -- n.

Defn: One who is on an equality with another.
In once he come to be a cardinal, He'll make his cap coequal with the
crown. Shak.

COEQUALITY
Co`e*qual"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power.

COEQUALLY
Co*e"qual*ly, adv.

Defn: With coequality.

COERCE
Co*erce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coerced; p. pr. & vb. n. Coercing.]
Etym: [L. coërcere; co- + arcere to shut up, to press together. See
Ark.]

1. To restrain by force, especially by law or authority; to repress;
to curb. Burke.
Punishments are manifold, that they may coerce this profligate sort.
Ayliffe.

2. To compel or constrain to any action; as, to coerce a man to vote
for a certain candidate.

3. To compel or enforce; as, to coerce obedience.

Syn.
 -- To Coerce, Compel. To compel denotes to urge on by force which
cannot be resisted. The term aplies equally to physical and moral
force; as, compelled by hunger; compelled adverse circumstances;
compelled by parental affection. Coerce had at first only the
negative sense of checking or restraining by force; as, to coerce a
bad man by punishments or a prisoner with fetters. It has now gained
a positive sense., viz., that of driving a person into the
performance of some act which is required of him by another; as, to
coerce a man to sign a contract; to coerce obedience. In this sense
(which is now the prevailing one), coerce differs but little from
compel, and yet there is a distinction between them. Coercion is
usually acomplished by indirect means, as threats and intimidation,
physical force being more rarely employed in coercing.

COERCIBLE
Co"er"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being coerced.
 -- Co*er"ci*ble*ness, n.

COERCION
Co*er"cion, n. Etym: [L. coercio, fr. coercere. See Coerce.]

1. The act or process of coercing.

2. (Law)

Defn: The application to another of either physical or moral force.
When the force is physical, and cannot be resisted, then the act
produced by it is a nullity, so far as concerns the party coerced.
When the force is moral, then the act, though voidable, is imputable
to the party doing it, unless he be so paralyzed by terror as to act
convulsively. At the same time coercion is not negatived by the fact
of submission under force. "Coactus volui" (I consented under
compulsion) is the condition of mind which, when there is volition
forced by coercion, annuls the result of such coercion. Wharton.

COERCITIVE
Co*er"ci*tive, a.

Defn: Coercive. "Coercitive power in laws." Jer. Taylor.

COERCIVE
Co*er"cive, a.

Defn: Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain.
 -- Co*er"cive*ly, adv.
 -- Co*er"cive*ness, n.
Coercive power can only influence us to outward practice. Bp.
Warburton.
Coercive or Coercitive force (Magnetism), the power or force which in
iron or steel produces a slowness or difficulty in imparting
magnetism to it, and also interposes an obstacle to the return of a
bar to its natural state when active magnetism has ceased. It plainly
depends on the molecular constitution of the metal. Nichol.
The power of resisting magnetization or demagnization is sometimes
called coercive force. S. Thompson.

COERULIGNONE
Coe`ru*lig"none, n. Etym: [L. coeruleus cerulean + lignum wood + E.
quinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in the
purification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complex
quinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret.

COESSENTIAL
Co`es*sen"tial, a.

Defn: Partaking of the same essence.
 -- Co`es*sen"tial*ly, adv.
We bless and magnify that coessential Spirit, eternally proceeding
from both [The Father and the Son]. Hooker.

COESSENTIALITY
Co`es*sen`ti*al"i*ty ( or ; 106), n.

Defn: Participation of the same essence. Johnson.

COESTABLISHMENT
Co`es*tab"lish*ment, n.

Defn: Joint establishment. Bp. Watson.

COESTATE
Co`es*tate", n.

Defn: Joint estate. Smolett.

COETANEAN
Co`e*ta"ne*an, n.

Defn: A personcoetaneous with another; a contemporary. [R.]
A . . . coetanean of the late earl of SouthamptoAubrey.

COETANEOUS
Co`e*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. coaetaneus; co- + aetas age.]

Defn: Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time;
contemporaneous.
 -- Co`e*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.
And all [members of the body] are coetaneous. Bentley.

COETERNAL
Co`e*ter"nal, a.

Defn: Equally eternal.
 -- Co`e*ter"nal*ly, adv.
Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven first born! Or of the Eternal
coeternal beam. Milton.

COETERNITY
Co`e*ter"ni*ty, n.

Defn: Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being;
equal eternity.

COEVAL
Co*e"val, a. Etym: [L. coaevus; co- + aevum lifetime, age. See Age,
n.]

Defn: Of the same age; existing during the same period of time,
especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.
Silence! coeval with eternity! Pope.
Oaks coeval spread a mournful shade. Cowper.

COEVAL
Co*e"val, n.

Defn: One of the same age; a contemporary.
As if it were not enough to have outdone all your coevals in wit.
Pope.

COEVOUS
Co*e"vous, a.

Defn: Coeaval [Obs.] South.

COEXECUTOR
Co`ex*ec"u*tor, n.

Defn: A joint executor.

COEXECUTRIX
Co`ex*ec"u*trix, n.

Defn: A joint executrix.

COEXIST
Co`ex*ist, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coexisted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coexisting.]

Defn: To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with.
Of substances no one has any clear idea, farther than of certain
simple ideas coexisting together. Locke.
So much purity and integrity . . . coexisting with so much decay and
so many infirmities. Warburton.

COEXISTENCE
Co`ex*ist"ence, n.

Defn: Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporary
existence.
Without the help, or so much as the coexistence, of any condition.
Jer. Taylor.

COEXISTENT
Co`ex*ist"ent, a.

Defn: Existing at the same time with another.
 -- n.

Defn: That which coexists with another.
The law of coexistent vibrations. Whewell.

COEXISTING
Co`ex*ist"ing, a.

Defn: Coexistent. Locke.

COEXTEND
Co`ex*tend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coextended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coextending.]

Defn: To extend through the same space or time with another; to
extend to the same degree.
According to which the least body may be coextended with the
greatest. Boyle.
Has your English language one single word that is coextended through
all these significations Bentley.

COEXTENSION
Co`ex*ten"sion, n.

Defn: The act of extending equally, or the state of being equally
extended.

COEXTENSIVE
Co`ex*ten"sive, a.

Defn: Equally extensive; having as, consciousness and knowledge are
coextensive. Sir W. Hamilton.
 -- Co`ex*ten"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Co`ex*ten"sive*ness, n.

COFFEE
Cof"fee, n. Etym: [Turk. qahveh, Ar. qahuah wine, coffee, a decoction
of berries. Cf. Café.]

1. The "beans" or "berries" (pyrenes) obtained from the drupes of a
small evergreen tree of the genus Coffea, growing in Abyssinia,
Arabia, Persia, and other warm regions of Asia and Africa, and also
in tropical America.

2. The coffee tree.

Note: There are several species of the coffee tree, as, Coffea
Arabica, C. occidentalis, and C. Liberica. The white, fragrant
flowers grow in clusters at the root of the leaves, and the fruit is
a red or purple cherrylike drupe, with sweet pulp, usually containing
two pyrenes, commercially called "beans" or "berries".

3. The beverage made from the roasted and ground berry.
They have in Turkey a drink called coffee . . . This drink comforteth
the brain and heart, and helpeth digestion. Bacon.

Note: The use of coffee is said to have been introduced into England
about 1650, when coffeehouses were opened in Oxford and London.
Coffee bug (Zoöl.), a species of scale insect (Lecanium coffæa),
often very injurious to the coffee tree.
 -- Coffee rat (Zoöl.) See Musang.

COFFEEHOUSE
Cof"fee*house`, n.

Defn: A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffee
and other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation.
The coffeehouse must not be dismissed with a cursory mention. It
might indeed, at that time, have been not improperly called a most
important political institution . . . The coffeehouses were the chief
organs through which the public opinion of the metropolis vented
itself . . . Every man of the upper or middle class went daily to his
coffeehouse to learn the news and discuss it. Every coffeehouse had
one or more orators, to whose eloquence the crowd listened with
admiration, and who soon became what the journalists of our own time
have been called -- a fourth estate of the realm. Macaulay.

COFFEEMAN
Cof"fee*man, n.

Defn: One who keeps a coffeehouse. Addison.

COFFEEPOT
Cof"fee*pot, n.

Defn: A covered pot im which coffee is prepared,

COFFEEROOM
Cof"fee*room`, n.

Defn: A public room where coffee and other refreshments may be
obtained.

COFFER
Cof"fer, n. Etym: [OF. cofre, F. coffre, L. cophinus basket, fr. Gr.
Coffin, n.]

1. A casket, chest, or trunk; especially, one used for keeping money
or other valuables. Chaucer.
In ivory coffers I have stuffed my crowns. Shak.

2. Fig.: Treasure or funds; -- usually in the plural.
He would discharge it without any burden to the queen's coffers, for
honor sake. Bacon.
Hold, here is half my coffer. Shak.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, or
portico; a caisson.

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A trench dug in the botton of a dry moat, and extending across
it, to enable the besieged to defend it by a raking fire.

5. The chamber of a canal lock; also, a caisson or a cofferdam.
Coffer dam. (Engin.) See Cofferdam, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Coffer fish. (Zoöl.) See Cowfish.

COFFER
Cof"fer, v. t.

1. To put into a coffer. Bacon.

2. (Mining.)

Defn: To secure from leaking, as a chaft, by ramming clay behind the
masonry or timbering. Raymond.

3. To form with or in a coffer or coffers; to turnish with a coffer
or coffers.

COFFERDAM
Cof"fer*dam, n.

Defn: A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, from
which the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) and
permit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc.

COFFERER
Cof"fer*er, n.

Defn: One who keeps treasures in a coffer. [R.]

COFFERWORK
Cof"fer*work`, n. (Masonry)

Defn: Rubblework faced with stone. Knight.

COFFIN
Cof"fin, n. Etym: [OE., a basket, receptacle, OF. cofin, fr. L.
cophinus. See Coffer, n.]

1. The case in which a dead human body is inclosed for burial.
They embalmed him [Joseph], and he was put in a coffin. Gen. 1. 26.

2. A basket. [Obs.] Wyclif (matt. xiv. 20).

3. A casing or crust, or a mold, of pastry, as for a pie.
Of the paste a coffin I will rear. Shak.

4. A conical paper bag, used by grocers. [Obs.] Nares.

5. (Far.)

Defn: The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet,
in which is the coffin bone. Coffin bone, the foot bone of the horse
and allied animals, inclosed within the hoof, and corresponding to
the third phalanx of the middle finger, or toe, of most mammals.
 -- Coffin joint, the joint next above the coffin bone.

COFFIN
Cof"fin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coffined; p. pr. & vb. n. Coffining.]

Defn: To inclose in, or as in, a coffin.
Would'st thou have laughed, had I come coffined home Shak.
Devotion is not coffined in a cell. John Hall (1646).

COFFINLESS
Cof"fin*less, a.

Defn: Having no coffin.

COFFLE
Cof"fle, n. Etym: [Ar. kafala caravan.]

Defn: A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.

COG
Cog, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cogged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cogging.] Etym: [Cf.
W. coegio to make void, to beceive, from coeg empty, vain, foolish.
Cf. Coax, v. t.]

1. To seduce, or draw away, by adulation, artifice, or falsehood; to
wheedle; to cozen; to cheat. [R.]
I'll . . . cog their hearts from them. Shak.

2. To obtrude or thrust in, by falsehood or deception; as, to cog in
a word; to palm off. [R.]
Fustian tragedies . . . have, by concerted applauses, been cogged
upon the town for masterpieces. J. Dennis
To cog a die, to load so as to direct its fall; to cheat in playing
dice. Swift.

COG
Cog, v. i.

Defn: To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; to
cajole.
For guineas in other men's breeches, Your gamesters will palm and
will cog. Swift.

COG
Cog, n.

Defn: A trick or deception; a falsehood. Wm. Watson.

COG
Cog, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. kugge a cog, or W. cocos the cogs of a wheel.]

1. (Mech.)

Defn: A tooth, cam, or catch for imparting or receiving motion, as on
a gear wheel, or a lifter or wiper on a shaft; originally, a separate
piece of wood set in a mortise in the face of a wheel.

2. (Carp.)
(a) A kind of tenon on the end of a joist, received into a notch in a
bearing timber, and resting flush with its upper surface.
(b) A tenon in a scarf joint; a coak. Knight.

3. (Mining.)

Defn: One of the rough pillars of stone or coal left to support the
roof of a mine.

COG
Cog, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a cog or cogs. Cogged breath sound
(Auscultation), a form of interrupted respiration, in which the
interruptions are very even, three or four to each inspiration.
Quain.

COG
Cog, n. Etym: [OE. cogge; cf. D. kog, Icel. kuggr Cf. Cock a boat.]

Defn: A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

COGENCY
Co"gen*cy, n. Etym: [See Cogent.]

Defn: The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction;
conclusiveness; force.
An antecedent argument of extreme cogency. J. H. Newman.

COGENIAL
Co*ge"ni*al, a.

Defn: Congenial. [Obs.]

COGENT
Co"gent, a. Etym: [L. cogens, p. pr. of cogere to drive together, to
force; co- + agere to drive. See Agent, a., and cf. Coact to force,
Coagulate, p. a.]

1. Compelling, in a physical sense; powerful. [Obs.]
The cogent force of nature. Prior.

2. Having the power to compel conviction or move the will;
constraining; conclusive; forcible; powerful; not easily reasisted.
No better nor more cogent reason. Dr. H. More.
Proofs of the most cogent description. Tyndall.
The tongue whose strains were cogent as commands, Revered at home,
and felt in foreign lands. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Forcible; powerful; potent; urgent; strong; persuasive;
convincing; conclusive; influential.

COGENTLY
Co"gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincigly; conclusively. Locke.

COGGER
Cog"ger, n. Etym: [From Cog to wheedle.]

Defn: A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.

COGGERY
Cog"ger*y, n.

Defn: Trick; deception. Bp. Watson.

COGGLE
Cog"gle, n. Etym: [See Cog small boat.]

Defn: A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

COGGLE
Cog"gle, n. Etym: [Cf. Cobble a cobblestone.]

Defn: A cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

COGITABILITY
Cog`i*ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness.

COGITABLE
Cog"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. cogitabilis, fr. cogitare to think.]

Defn: Capable of being brought before the mind as a throught or idea;
conceivable; thinkable.
Creation is cogitable by us only as a putting forth of divine power.
Sir W. Hamilton.

COGITABUND
Cog"i*ta*bund`, a. Etym: [L. cogitabundus.]

Defn: Full of thought; thoughtful. [R.] Leigh Hunt.

COGITATE
Cog"i*tate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cogitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cogitating.] Etym: [L. cogitatus, p. p. of cogitare to reflect upon,
prob. fr. co- + the root of aio I say; hence, prop., to discuss with
one's self. Cf. Adage.]

Defn: To engage in continuous thought; to think.
He that calleth a thing into his mind, whether by impression or
recordation, cogitateth and considereth, and he that employeth the
faculty of his fancy also cogitateth. Bacon.

COGITATE
Cog"i*tate, v. t.

Defn: To think over; to plan.
He . . . is our witness, how we both day and night, revolving in our
minds, did cogitate nothing more than how to satisfy the parts of a
good pastor. Foxe.

COGITATION
Cog`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. cogitatio: cf. F. cogitation.]

Defn: The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation. "Fixed
in cogitation deep." Milton.

COGITATIVE
Cog"i*ta*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. cogitativus.]

1. Possessing, or pertaining to, the power of thinking or meditating.
"Cogitative faculties." Wollaston.

2. Given to thought or contemplation. Sir H. Wotton.

COGMAN
Cog"man, n.

Defn: A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth. [Obs.] Wright.

COGNAC
Co"gnac`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac.

COGNATE
Cog"nate, a. Etym: [L. cognatus; co- + gnatus, natus, p. p. of nasci,
anciently gnasci, to be born. See Nation, and cf. Connate.]

1. Allied by blood; kindred by birth; specifically (Law), related on
the mother's side.

2. Of the same or a similar nature; of the same family; proceeding
from the same stock or root; allied; kindred; as, a cognate language.

COGNATE
Cog"nate, n.

1. (Law)

Defn: One who is related to another on the female side. Wharton.

2. One of a number of things allied in origin or nature; as, certain
letters are cognates.

COGNATENESS
Cog"nate*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being cognate.

COGNATI
Cog*na"ti, n. pl. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: Relatives by the mother's side. Wharton.

COGNATION
Cog*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cognatio.]

1. Relationship by blood; descent from the same original; kindred.
As by our cognation to the body of the first Adam. Jer. Taylor.

2. Participation of the same nature. Sir T. Browne.
A like temper and cognation. Sir K. Digby.

3. (Law)

Defn: That tie of consanguinity which exists between persons
descended from the same mother; -- used in distinction from agnation.

COGNATUS
Cog*na"tus, n. Etym: [L., a kinsman.] (Law)

Defn: A person cinnected through cognation.

COGNISOR; COGNISEE
Cog`ni*sor" ( or ), Cog`ni*see, n.

Defn: See Cognizor, Cognizee.

COGNITION
Cog*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. cognitio, fr. cognoscere, cognitum, to
become acquainted with, to know; co- + noscere, gnoscere, to get a
knowledge of. See Know, v. t.]

1. The act of knowing; knowledge; perception.
I will not be myself nor have cognation Of what I feel: I am all
patience. Shak.

2. That which is known.

COGNITIVE
Cog"ni*tive, a.

Defn: Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitive
power. South.

COGNIZABLE
Cog"ni*za*ble ( or , a. Etym: [F. connaissable, fr. connaître to
know, L. cognoscere. See Cognition.]

1. Capable of being known or apprehended; as, cognizable causes.

2. Fitted to be a subject of judicial investigation; capable of being
judicially heard and determined.
Cognizable both in the ecclesiastical and secular courts. Ayliffe.

COGNIZABLY
Cog"ni*za*bly, adv.

Defn: In a cognizable manner.

COGNIZANCE
Cog"ni*zance ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [OF. conissance, conoissance, F.
conaissance, LL. cognoscentia, fr. L. cognoscere to know. See
Cognition, and cf. Cognoscence, Connoisseur.]

1. Apprehension by the understanding; perception; observation.
Within the cognizance and lying under the control of their divine
Governor. Bp. Hurd

2. Recollection; recognition.
Who, soon as on that knight his eye did glance, Eftsoones of him had
perfect cognizance. Spenser.

3. (Law)
(a) Jurisdiction, or the power given by law to hear and decide
controversies.
(b) The hearing a matter judicially.
(c) An acknowledgment of a fine of lands and tenements or confession
of a thing done. [Eng.]
(d) A form of defense in the action of replevin, by which the
defendant insists that the goods were lawfully taken, as a distress,
by defendant, acting as servant for another. [Eng.] Cowell. Mozley &
W.

4. The distinguishing mark worn by an armed knight, usually upon the
helmet, and by his retainers and followers: Hence, in general, a
badge worn by a retainer or dependent, to indicate the person or
party to which he belonged; a token by which a thing may be known.
Wearing the liveries and cognizance of their master. Prescott.
This pale and angry rose, As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate.
Shak.

COGNIZANT
Cog"ni*zant ( or ), a. Etym: [See Cognizance, and cf. Connusant.]

Defn: Having cognizance or knowledge. (of).

COGNIZE
Cog"nize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Cognizant, Recognize.]

Defn: To know or perceive; to recognize.
The reasoning faculty can deal with no facts until they are cognized
by it. H. Spencer.

COGNIZEE
Cog`ni*zee" ( or ), n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom a fine of land was ackowledged. Blackstone.

COGNIZOR
Cog`ni*zor, n. Etym: [See Cognizance.] (Law)

Defn: One who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a
fine; the defendant. Blackstone.

COGNOMEN
Cog*no"men, n. Etym: [L.: co- + (g)nomen name.]

1. The last of the three names of a person among the ancient Romans,
denoting his house or family.

2. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A surname.

COGNOMINAL
Cog*nom"i*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname.

COGNOMINAL
Cog*nom"i*nal, n.

Defn: One bearing the same name; a namesake. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

COGNOMINATION
Cog*nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cognominatio.]

Defn: A cognomen or surname. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

COGNOSCENCE
Cog*nos"cence, n. Etym: [LL. cognoscentia. See Cognizance.]

Defn: Cognizance. [R.] Dr. H. More.

COGNOSCENTE
Cog`nos*cen"te, n.; pl. Cognoscenti. Etym: [OIt. cognoscente, p. pr.
of cognoscere, It. conoscere to know.]

Defn: A conoisseur. Mason.

COGNOSCIBILITY
Cog*nos`ci*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being cognoscible. Cudworth.

COGNOSCIBLE
Cog*nos"ci*ble, a.

1. Capable of being known. "Matters intelligible and cognoscible."
Sir M. Hale.

2. Liable to judicial investigation. Jer. Taylor.

COGNOSCITIVE
Cog*nos"ci*tive, a.

Defn: Having the power of knowing. [Obs.] "An innate cognoscitive
power." Cudworth.

COGNOVIT
Cog*no"vit, n. Etym: [L., he has acknowledged.] (Law)

Defn: An instrument in writting whereby a defendant in an action
acknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just. Mozley & W.

COGON
Co*gon", n. [Sp., prob. fr. a native name.]

Defn: A tall, coarse grass (Imperata arundinacea) of the Philippine
Islands and adjacent countries, used for thatching.

COGUARDIAN
Co*guard"i*an, n.

Defn: A joint guardian.

COGUE
Cogue, n. Etym: [Cf. Cog a small boat.]

Defn: A small wooden vessel; a pail. [Scot.] Jamieson.

COGWARE
Cog"ware`, n.

Defn: A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classes
in the sixteenth century. Halliwell.

COGWHEEL
Cog"wheel`, n.

Defn: A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. of
Gearing.

COHABIT
Co*hab"it, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cohabited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cohabiting.] Etym: [L. cohabitare; co- + habitare to dwell, to have
possession of (a place), freg. of habere to have. See Habit, n. & v.]

1. To inhabit or reside in company, or in the same place or country.
The Philistines were worsted by the captived ark . . . : they were
not able to cohabit with that holy thing. South.

2. To dwell or live together as husband and wife.
The law presumes that husband and wife cohabit together, even after a
voluntary separation has taken place between them. Bouvier.

Note: By the common law as existing in the United States, marriage is
presumed when a man and woman cohabit permanently together, being
reputed by those who know them to be husband and wife, and admitting
the relationship. Wharton.

COHABITANT
Co*hab"it*ant, n. Etym: [L. cohabitans, p. pr.]

Defn: One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country.
No small number of the Danes became peaceable cohabitants with the
Saxons in England. Sir W. Raleigh.

COHABITATION
Co*hab"i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. cohabitatio.]

1. The act or state of dwelling together, or in the same place with
another. Feltham.

2. (Law)

Defn: The living together of a man and woman in supposed sexual
relationship.
That the duty of cohabitation is released by the cruelty of one of
the parties is admitted. Lord Stowell.

COHABITER
Co*hab"it*er, n.

Defn: A cohabitant. Hobbes.

COHEIR
Co*heir, n.

Defn: A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled
to an inheritance.

COHEIRESS
Co*heir"ess, n.

Defn: A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a joint
heiress.

COHEIRSHIP
Co*heir"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a coheir.

COHERALD
Co*her"ald, n.

Defn: A joint herald.

COHERE
Co*here", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cohered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cohering.]
Etym: [L. cohaerere, cohaesum; co- + haerere to stick, adhere. See
Aghast, a.]

1. To stick together; to cleave; to be united; to hold fast, as parts
of the same mass.
Neither knows he . . . how the solid parts of the body are united or
cohere together. Locke.

2. To be united or connected together in subordination to one
purpose; to follow naturally and logically, as the parts of a
discourse, or as arguments in a train of reasoning; to be logically
consistent.
They have been inserted where they best seemed to cohere. Burke.

3. To suit; to agree; to fit. [Obs.]
Had time cohered with place, or place with wishing. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To cleave; unite; adhere; stick; suit; agree; fit; be consistent.

COHERENCE; COHERENCY
Co*her"ence, Co*her"en*cy, n. Etym: [L. cohaerentia: cf. F.
cohérence.]

1. A sticking or cleaving together; union of parts of the same body;
cohesion.

2. Connection or dependence, proceeding from the subordination of the
parts of a thing to one principle or purpose, as in the parts of a
discourse, or of a system of philosophy; consecutiveness.
Coherence of discourse, and a direct tendency of all the parts of it
to the argument in hand, are most eminently to be found in him.
Locke.

COHERENT
Co*her"ent, a. Etym: [L. cohaerens, p. pr. See Cohere.]

1. Sticking together; cleaving; as the parts of bodies; solid or
fluid. Arbuthnot.

2. Composed of mutually dependent parts; making a logical whole;
consistent; as, a coherent plan, argument, or discourse.

3. Logically consistent; -- applied to persons; as, a coherent
thinker. Watts.

4. Suitable or suited; adapted; accordant. [Obs.]
Instruct my daughter how she shall persever, That time and place,
with this deceit so lawful, May prove coherent. Shak.

COHERENTLY
Co*her"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coherent manner.

COHERER
Co*her"er, n. (Elec.)

Defn: Any device in which an imperfectly conducting contact between
pieces of metal or other conductors loosely resting against each
other is materially improved in conductivity by the influence of
Hertzian waves; -- so called by Sir O. J. Lodge in 1894 on the
assumption that the impact of the electic waves caused the loosely
connected parts to cohere, or weld together, a condition easily
destroyed by tapping. A common form of coherer as used in wireless
telegraphy consists of a tube containing filings (usually a pinch of
nickel and silver filings in equal parts) between terminal wires or
plugs (called conductor plugs).

COHESIBILITY
Co*he`si*bil"i*ty ( or ), n.

Defn: The state of being cohesible. Good.

COHESIBLE
Co*he"si*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of cohesion.

COHESION
Co*he"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cohésion. See Cohere.]

1. The act or state of sticking together; close union.

2. (Physics)

Defn: That from of attraction by which the particles of a body are
united throughout the mass, whether like or unlike; -- distinguished
from adhesion, which unites bodies by their adjacent surfaces.
Solids and fluids differ in the degree of cohesion, which, being
increased, turns a fluid into a solid. Arbuthnot.

3. Logical agreement and dependence; as, the cohesion of ideas.
Locke.

COHESIVE
Co*he"sive, a.

1. Holding the particles of a homogeneous body together; as, cohesive
attraction; producing cohesion; as, a cohesive force.

2. Cohering, or sticking together, as in a mass; capable of cohering;
tending to cohere; as, cohesive clay. Cohesive attraction. See under
Attraction.
 -- Co*he"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Co*he"sive*ness, n.

COHIBIT
Co*hib"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cohibited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cohibiting.] Etym: [L. cohibitus, p. p. of cohibere to confine; co- +
habere to hold.]

Defn: To restrain. [Obs.] Bailey.

COHIBITION
Co`hi*bi"tion, n. Etym: [L. cohibitio.]

Defn: Hindrance; restraint. [Obs.]

COHOBATE
Co`ho*bate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cohobated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cohobating.] Etym: [LL. cohobare; prob. of Arabic origin: cf. F.
cohober.] (Anc. Chem.)

Defn: To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon the
matter remaining in the vessel. Arbuthnot.

COHOBATION
Co`ho*ba"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cohobation.] (Anc. Chem.)

Defn: The process of cohobating. Grew.

COHORN
Co"horn, n. (Mil.)

Defn: See Coehorn.

COHORT
Co"hort, n. Etym: [L. cohors, prop. an inclosure: cf. F. cohorte. See
Court, n.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part of
a legion.

2. Any band or body of warriors.
With him the cohort bright Of watchful cherubim. Milton.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A natural group of orders of plants, less comprehensive than a
class.

COHOSH
Co"hosh, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whose
roostock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The name
is sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to two
species of Actæa, plants of the Crowfoot family.

COHUNE; COHUNE PALM
Co*hune", n., or Cohune palm . [Prob. fr. a native name in Honduras.]

Defn: A Central and South American pinnate-leaved palm (Attalea
cohune), the very large and hard nuts of which are turned to make
fancy articles, and also yield an oil used as a substitute for
coconut oil.

COIF
Coif (koif), n. Etym: [OF. coife, F. coiffe, LL. cofea, cuphia, fr.
OHG. kuppa, kuppha, miter, perh. fr. L. cupa tub. See Cup, n. ; but
cf. also Cop, Cuff the article of dress, Quoif, n.]

Defn: A cap. Specifically: (a) A close-fitting cap covering the sides
of the head, like a small hood without a cape. (b) An official
headdress, such as that worn by certain judges in England. [Writting
also quoif.]
From point and saucy ermine down To the plain coif and russet gown.
H. Brocke.
The judges, . . . althout they are not of the first magnitude, nor
need be of the degree of the coif, yet are they considerable. Bacon.

COIF
Coif (koif), v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. coiffer.]

Defn: To cover or dress with, or as with, a coif.
And coif me, where I'm bald, with flowers. J. G. Cooper.

COIFED
Coifed (koift), a.

Defn: Wearing a coif.

COIFFEUR
Coif`feur", n. [F.]

Defn: A hairdresser.

COIFFURE
Coif"fure, n. Etym: [F., fr. coiffer. See Coif.]

Defn: A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair. Addison.

COIGN
Coign, n.

Defn: A var. spelling of Coin, Quoin, a corner, wedge; -- chiefly
used in the phrase coign of vantage, a position advantageous for
action or observation.

From some shielded nook or coign of vantage.
The Century.

The lithosphere would be depressed on four faces; . . . the four
projecting coigns would stand up as continents.
Nature.

COIGNE
Coigne (koin), n. Etym: [See Coin, n.]

Defn: A quoin.
See you yound coigne of the Capitol yon corner stone Shak.

COIGNE; COIGNY
Coigne, Coign"y, n.

Defn: The practice of quartering one's self as landlord on a tenant;
a quartering of one's self on anybody. [Ireland] Spenser.

COIL
Coil (koil), v.t. [imp. & p. p. Coiled (koild); p. pr. & vb. n.
Coiling.] Etym: [OF. coillir, F. cueillir, to collect, gather
together, L. coligere; col- + legere to gather. See Legend, and cf.
Cull, v. t., Collect.]

1. To wind cylindrically or spirally; as, to coil a rope when not in
use; the snake coiled itself before springing.

2. To encircle and hold with, or as with, coils. [Obs. or R.] T.
Edwards.

COIL
Coil, v. i.

Defn: To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; to
wind; -- often with about or around.
You can see his flery serpents . . . Coiting, playing in the water.
Longfellow.

COIL
Coil, n.

1. A ring, series of rings, or spiral, into which a rope, or other
like thing, is wound.
The wild grapevines that twisted their coils from trec to tree. W.
Irving.

2. Fig.: Entanglement; toil; mesh; perplexity.

3. A series of connected pipes in rows or layers, as in a steam
heating apparatus. Induction coil. (Elec.) See under Induction.
 -- Ruhmkorff's coil (Elec.), an induction coil, sometimes so called
from Ruhmkorff (, a prominent manufacturer of the apparatus.

COIL
Coil, n. Etym: [Of Celtic origin; cf. Gael. goil fume, rage.]

Defn: A noise, tumult, bustle, or confusion. [Obs.] Shak.

COILON
Coi"lon, n. Etym: [F. See Cullion.]

Defn: A testicle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COIN
Coin (koin), n. Etym: [F. coin, formerly also coing, wedge, stamp,
corner, fr. L. cuneus wedge; prob. akin to E. cone, hone. See Hone,
n., and cf. Coigne, Quoin, Cuneiform.]

1. A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wegde. See Coigne, and
Quoin.

2. A piece of metal on which certain characters are stamped by
government authority, making it legally current as money; -- much
used in a collective sense.
It is alleged that it [a subsidy] exceeded all the current coin of
the realm. Hallam.

3. That which serves for payment or recompense.
The loss of present advantage to flesh and blood is repaid in a
nobler coin. Hammond.
Coin balance. See Illust. of Balance.
 -- To pay one in his own coin, to return to one the same kind of
injury or ill treatment as has been received from him. [Colloq.]

COIN
Coin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coined (koind); p. pr. & vb. n. Coining.]

1. To make of a definite fineness, and convert into coins, as a mass
of metal; to mint; to manufacture; as, to coin silver dollars; to
coin a medal.

2. To make or fabricate; to invent; to originate; as, to coin a word.
Some tale, some new pretense, he daily coined, To soothe his sister
and delude her mind. Dryden.

3. To acquire rapidly, as money; to make.
Tenants cannot coin rent just at quarter day. Locke.

COIN
Coin, v. i.

Defn: To manufacture counterfeit money.
They cannot touch me for coining. Shak.

COINAGE
Coin"age, n. Etym: [From Coin, v. t., cf. Cuinage.]

1. The act or process of converting metal into money.
The care of the coinage was committed to the inferior magistrates.
Arbuthnot.

2. Coins; the aggregate coin of a time or place.

3. The cost or expense of coining money.

4. The act or process of fabricating or inventing; formation;
fabrication; that which is fabricated or forged. "Unnecessary coinage
. . . of words." Dryden.
This is the very coinage of your brain. Shak.

COINCIDE
Co`in*cide", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Coincided; p. pr. & vb. n.
Coinciding.] Etym: [L. co- + incidere to fall on; in + cadere to
fall: cf. F. coïncider. See Chance, n.]

1. To occupy the same place in space, as two equal triangles, when
placed one on the other.
If the equator and the ecliptic had coincided, it would have rendered
the annual revoluton of the earth useless. Cheyne.

2. To occur at the same time; to be contemporaneous; as, the fall of
Granada coincided with the discovery of America.

3. To correspond exactly; to agree; to concur; as, our aims coincide.
The rules of right jugdment and of good ratiocination often coincide
with each other. Watts.

COINCIDENCE
Co*in"ci*dence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coïncidence.]

1. The condition of occupying the same place in space; as, the
coincidence of circles, surfaces, etc. Bentley.

2. The condition or fact of happening at the same time; as, the
coincidence of the deaths of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.

3. Exact correspondence in nature, character, result, circumstances,
etc.; concurrence; agreement.
The very concurrence and coincidence of ao many evidences . . .
carries a great weight. Sir M. Hale.
Those who discourse . . . of the nature of truth . . . affirm a
perfect coincidence between truth and goodness. South.

COINCIDENCY
Co*in"ci*den*cy, n.

Defn: Coincidence. [R.]

COINCIDENT
Co*in"ci*dent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. coïncident.]

Defn: Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous;
concurrent; -- followed by with.
Christianity teaches nothing but what is perfectly suitable to, and
coincident with, the ruling principles of a virtuous and well-
inclined man. South.

COINCIDENT
Co*in"ci*dent, n.

Defn: One of two or more coincident events; a coincidence. [R.]
"Coincidents and accidents." Froude.

COINCIDENTAL
Co*in`ci*den"tal, a.

Defn: Coincident.

COINCIDENTLY
Co*in"ci*dent*ly, adv.

Defn: With coincidence.

COINCIDER
Co`in*cid"er, n.

Defn: One who coincides with another in an opinion.

COINDICATION
Co*in`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coïdication.]

Defn: One of several signs or sumptoms indicating the same fact; as,
a coindication of disease.

COINER
Coin"er, n.

1. One who makes or stamps coin; a maker of money; -- usually, a
maker of counterfeit money.
Precautions such as are employed by coiners and receivers of stolen
goods. Macaulay.

2. An inventor or maker, as of words. Camden.

COINHABITANT
Co`in*hab"it*ant, n.

Defn: One who dwells with another, or with others. "Coinhabitants of
the same element." Dr. H. More.

COINHERE
Co`in*here", v. i.

Defn: To inhere or exist together, as in one substance. Sir W.
Hamilton.

COINHERITANCE
Co`in*her"it*ance, n.

Defn: Joint inheritance.

COINHERITOR
Co`in*her"it*or, n.

Defn: A coheir.

COINITIAL
Co`in*i"tial, a. (Math.)

Defn: Having a common beginning.

COINQUINATE
Co*in"qui*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. coinquinatus, p. p. of coinquinare to
defile. See Inquinate.]

Defn: Topollute. [Obs.] Skelton.

COINQUINATION
Co*in`qui*na"tion, n.

Defn: Defilement. [Obs.]

COINSTANTANEOUS
Co*in"stan*ta"ne*ous, a.

Defn: Happening at the same instant. C. Darwin.

COINSURANCE
Co`in*sur"ance, n.  [Co- + insurance.]

Defn: Insurance jointly with another or others; specif., that system
of fire insurance in which the insurer is treated as insuring himself
to the extent of that part of the risk not covered by his policy, so
that any loss is apportioned between him and the insurance company on
the principle of average, as in marine insurance or between other
insurers.

COINTENSE
Co`intense", a.

Defn: Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and
12, and 8 and 16, are cointense. H. Spencer.

COINTENSION
Co`in*ten"sion, n.

Defn: The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied to
relations; as, 3 : 6 and 6 : 12 are relations of cointension.
Cointension . . . is chosen indicate the equality of relations in
respect of the contrast between their terms. H. Spencer.

COIR
Coir (koir), n. Etym: [Tamil kayiru.]

1. A material for cordage, matting, etc., consisting of the prepared
fiber of the outer husk of the cocoanut. Homans.

2. Cordage or cables, made of this material.

COISTRIL
Cois"tril, n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. coustillier groom or lad. Cf.
Custrel.]

1. An inferior groom or lad employed by an esquire to carry the
knight's arms and other necessaries. [Written also coistrel.]

2. A mean, paltry fellow; a coward. [Obs.] Shak.

COIT
Coit (koit), n. Etym: [See Quoit.]

Defn: A quoit. [Obs.] Carew.

COIT
Coit, v. t.

Defn: To throw, as a stone. [Obs.] See Quoit.

COITION
Co*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. coitio, fr. coire to come together; co- + ire
to go.]

Defn: A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation. Grew.

COJOIN
Co*join", v. t.

Defn: To join; to conjoin. [R.] Shak.

COJUROR
Co*ju"ror, n.

Defn: One who swears to another's credibility. W. Wotton.

COKE
Coke, n. Etym: [Perh. akin to cake, n.]

Defn: Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or
other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by
distillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where [Written also
coak.] Gas coke, the coke formed in gas retorts, as distinguished
from that made in ovens.

COKE
Coke, v. t.

Defn: To convert into coke.

COKENAY
Coke"nay, n.

Defn: A cockney. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COKERNUT
Co"ker*nut`, n. (Com.)

Defn: The cocoanut.

Note: A mode of spelling introduced by the London customhouse to
distinguish more widely between this and other articles spelt much in
the same manner.

COKES
Cokes, n. Etym: [OE. Cf. Coax.]

Defn: A simpleton; a gull; a dupe. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

COKEWOLD
Coke"wold, n.

Defn: Cuckold. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COL; COL-
Col

Defn: - (with, together. See Com-.

COL
Col, n. Etym: [F., neck, fr. L. collum neck.]

Defn: A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains;
the pass over such a ridge.

COLA
Co"la, n. [NL., fr. a native name.] (Bot.)
 (a) A genus of sterculiaceous trees, natives of tropical Africa,
esp. Guinea, but now naturalized in tropical America, esp. in the
West Indies and Brazil.
 (b) Same as Cola nut, below.

COLA
Co"la, n.,

Defn: L. pl. of Colon.

COLABORER
Co*la"bor*er, n.

Defn: One who labors with another; an associate in labor.

COLANDER
Col"an*der, n. Etym: [L. colans, -antis, p. pr. of colare to filter,
to strain, fr. colum a strainer. Cf. Cullis, Culvert.]

Defn: A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes for
straining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer of
wickerwork, perfprated metal, or the like.

COLA NUT; COLA SEED
Cola nut, Cola seed. (Bot.)

Defn: The bitter fruit of Cola acuminata, which is nearly as large as
a chestnut, and furnishes a stimulant, which is used in medicine.

COLATION
Co*la"tion, n. Etym: [See Colander.]

Defn: The act or process of straining or filtering. [R.]

COLATITUDE
Co*lat"i*tude (; 134), n. Etym: [Formed like cosine. See Cosine.]

Defn: The complement of the latitude, or the difference between any
latitude and ninety degrees.

COLATURE
Col"a*ture, n. Etym: [L. colatura, from colare: cf. F. colature. See
Colander.]

Defn: The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer. [R.]

COLBERTINE
Col"ber*tine, n. Etym: [From Jean Baptiste Colbert, a minister of
Louis XIV., who encouraged the lace manufacture in France.]

Defn: A kind of lace. [Obs.]
Pinners edged with colbertine. Swift.
Difference rose between Mechlin, the queen of lace, and colbertine.
Young.

COLCHICINE
Col"chi*cine ( or ), n. Etym: [Cf. F. colchicine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from the
Colchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowish
amorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called also
colchicia.

COLCHICUM
Col"chi*cum, n. Etym: [L., a plant with a poisonous root, fr.
Colchicus Colchian, fr. Colchis, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe,
including the meadow saffron.

Note: Preparations made from the poisonous bulbs and seeds, and
perhaps from the flowers, of the Colchicum autumnale (meadow saffron)
are used as remedies for gout and rheumatism.

COLCOTHAR
Col"co*thar, n. Etym: [NL. colcothar vitrioli, fr. Ar. qolqotar.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used in
polishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis.

COLD
Cold, a. [Compar. Colder; superl. Coldest.] Etym: [OE. cold, cald,
AS. cald, ceald; akin to OS. kald, D. koud, G. kalt, Icel. kaldr,
Dan. kold, Sw. kall, Goth. kalds, L. gelu frost, gelare to freeze.
Orig. p. p. of AS. calan to be cold, Icel. kala to freeze. Cf. Cool,
a., Chill, n.]

1. Deprived of heat, or having a low temperature; not warm or hot;
gelid; frigid. "The snowy top of cold Olympis." Milton.

2. Lacking the sensation of warmth; suffering from the absence of
heat; chilly; shivering; as, to be cold.

3. Not pungent or acrid. "Cold plants." Bacon

4. Wanting in ardor, intensity, warmth, zeal, or passion; spiritless;
unconcerned; reserved.
A cold and unconcerned spectator. T. Burnet.
No cold relation is a zealous citizen. Burke.

5. Unwelcome; disagreeable; unsatisfactory. "Cold news for me." "Cold
comfort." Shak.

6. Wanting in power to excite; dull; uninteresting.
What a deal of cold business doth a man misspend the better part of
life in! B. Jonson.
The jest grows cold . . . when in comes on in a second scene.
Addison.

7. Affecting the sense of smell (as of hunting dogs) but feebly;
having lost its odor; as, a cold scent.

8. Not sensitive; not acute.
Smell this business with a sense as cold As is a dead man's nose.
Shak.

9. Distant; -- said, in the game of hunting for some object, of a
seeker remote from the thing concealed.

10. (Paint.)

Defn: Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8. Cold abscess. See under
Abscess.
 -- Cold blast See under Blast, n., 2. Cold blood. See under Blood,
n., 8.
 -- Cold chill, an ague fit. Wright.
 -- Cold chisel, a chisel of peculiar strength and hardness, for
cutting cold metal. Weale.
 -- Cold cream. See under Cream.
 -- Cold slaw. See Cole slaw.
 -- In cold blood, without excitement or passion; deliberately.
He was slain in cold blood after thefight was over. Sir W. Scott.
To give one the cold shoulder, to treat one with neglect.

Syn.
 -- Gelid; bleak; frigid; chill; indifferent; unconcerned;
passionless; reserved; unfeeling; stoical.

COLD
Cold, n.

1. The relative absence of heat or warmth.

2. The sensation produced by the escape of heat; chilliness or
chillness.
When she saw her lord prepared to part, A deadly cold ran shivering
to her heart. Dryden.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid state of the animal system produced by exposure to
cold or dampness; a catarrh. Cold sore (Med.), a vesicular eruption
appearing about the mouth as the result of a cold, or in the course
of any disease attended with fever.
 -- To leave one out in the cold, to overlook or neglect him.
[Colloq.] Cold, v. i.

Defn: To become cold. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COLD-BLOODED
Cold"-blood`ed, a.

1. Having cold blood; -- said of fish or animals whose blood is but
little warmer than the water or air about them.

2. Deficient in sensibility or feeling; hard-hearted.

3. Not thoroughbred; -- said of animals, as horses, which are derived
from the common stock of a country.

COLDFINCH
Cold"finch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A British wagtail.

COLD-HEARTED
Cold"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent.
 -- Cold"-heart`ed*ness, n.

COLDISH
Cold"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat cold; cool; chilly.

COLDLY
Cold"ly, adv.

Defn: In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with
indifference; calmly.
Withdraw unto some private place, And reason coldly of your
grievances. Shak.

COLDNESS
Cold"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being cold.

COLD-SHORT
Cold"-short`, a.

Defn: Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.

COLD-SHUT
Cold"-shut`, a. (Metal.)

Defn: Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of a
forging or casting.
 -- n.

Defn: An imperfection caused by such insufficient welding.

COLD WAVE
Cold" wave". (Meteor.)

Defn: In the terminology of the United States Weather Bureau, an
unusual fall in temperature, to or below the freezing point,
exceeding 16º in twenty-four hours or 20º in thirty-six hours,
independent of the diurnal range.

COLE
Cole, n. Etym: [OE. col, caul, AS. cawl, cawel, fr. L. caulis, the
stalk or stem of a plant, esp. a cabbage stalk, cabbage, akin to Gr.
Cauliflower, Kale.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B.
oleracea called rape and coleseed.

CO-LEGATEE
Co-leg`a*tee", n.

Defn: A joint legatee.

COLEGOOSE
Cole"goose`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Coalgoose.

COLEMANITE
Cole"man*ite, n. Etym: [From W.T. Coleman of San Francisco.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless or
white crystals, also massive, in Southern California.

COLEMOUSE
Cole"mouse`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Coletit.

COLEOPTER
Co`le*op"ter, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Coleoptera.

COLEOPTERA
Co`le*op"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra)
hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair,
which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others when
not in use. The mouth parts form two pairs of jaws (mandibles and
maxillæ) adapted for chewing. Most of the Coleoptera are known as
beetles and weevils.

COLEOPTERAL; COLEOPTEROUS
Co`le*op"ter*al, Co`le*op"ter*ous a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having wings covered with a case or sheath; belonging to the
Coleoptera.

COLEOPTERAN
Co`le*op"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the order of Coleoptera.

COLEOPTERIST
Co`le*op"ter*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in the study of the Coleoptera.

COLEORHIZA
Co`le*o*rhi"za, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle.
Gray.

COLEPERCH
Cole"perch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of small black perch.

COLERA
Col"e*ra, n. Etym: [L. cholera. See Choler.]

Defn: Bile; choler. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COLERIDGIAN
Cole*ridg"i*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry or
metaphysics.

COLESEED
Cole"seed`, n.

Defn: The common rape or cole.

COLESLAW
Cole"slaw`, n. Etym: [D. kool slaa cabbage salad.]

Defn: A salad made of sliced cabbage.

CO-LESSEE
Co`-les*see", n.

Defn: A partner in a lease taen.

CO-LESSOR
Co`-les*sor", n.

Defn: A partner in giving a lease.

COLESTAFF
Cole"staff`, n.

Defn: See Colstaff.

COLET; COLLET
Col"et, Col"letEtym: [Corrupted fr. acolyte.]

Defn: An inferior church servant. [Obs.] See Acolyte.

COLETIT; COALTIT
Cole"tit` or Coal"tit, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black
color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse.

COLEUS
Co"le*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for
its bright-colored or variegated leaves.

COLEWORT
Cole"wort`, n. Etym: [AS. cawlwyrt; cawl cole + wyrt wort. Cf.
Collards.]

1. A variety of cabbage in which the leaves never form a compact
head.

2. Any white cabbage before the head has become firm.

COLFOX
Col"fox`, n.

Defn: A crafty fox. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COLIC
Col"ic, n. Etym: [F. colique, fr. L. colicus sick with the colic, GR.
Colon.] (Med.)

Defn: A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm,
obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera. Hepatic
colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a gallstone from
the liver or gall bladder through the bile duct.
 -- Intestinal colic, or Ordinary colic, pain due to distention of
the intestines by gas.
 -- Lead colic, Painter's colic, a violent form of intestinal colic,
associated with obstinate constipation, produced by chronic lead
poisoning.
 -- Renal colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a
calculus from the kidney through the ureter.
 -- Wind colic. See Intestinal colic, above.

COLIC
Col"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to colic; affecting the bowels. Milton.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the colon; as, the colic arteries.

COLICAL
Col"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic. Swift.

COLICKY
Col"ick*y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.

COLICROOT
Col"ic*root`, n.

Defn: A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leaves
all radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike
(Aletris farinosa and A. aurea). Called sometimes star grass,
blackroot, blazing star, and unicorn root.

COLIN
Col"in, n. Etym: [F. colin; prop. a dim. of Colas, contr. fr. Nicolas
Nicholas.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied to
other related species. See Bobwhite.

COLISEUM
Col`i*se"um, n. Etym: [NL. (cf. It. coliseo, colosseo), fr. L.
colosseus colossal, fr. colossus a colossus. See Colossus, and cf.
Colosseum.]

Defn: The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in the
world. [Written also Colosseum.]

COLITIS
Co*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucous
membrane; colonitis.

COLL
Coll, v. t. Etym: [OF. coler, fr. L. collum neck.]

Defn: To embrace. [Obs.] "They coll and kiss him." Latimer.

COLLABORATEUR
Col*la`bo*ra*teur", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Collaborator.

COLLABORATION
Col*lab`o*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The act ofworking together; united labor.

COLLABORATOR
Col*lab"o*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L. collaborare to labor together; col- +
laborare to labor: cf. F. collaborateur.]

Defn: An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientific
labor.

COLLAGEN
Col"la*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendons
or sinews and of bone. On being boiled in water it becomes gelatin or
glue.

COLLAGENOUS
Col*lag"e*nous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Containing or resembling collagen.

COLLAPSE
Col*lapse", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Collapsed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Collapsing] Etym: [L. collapsus, p. p. of collabi to collapse; col- +
labi to fall, slide. See Lapse.]

1. To fall together suddenly, as the sides of a hollow vessel; to
close by falling or shrinking together; to have the sides or parts of
(a thing) fall in together, or be crushed in together; as, a flue in
the boiler of a steam engine sometimes collapses.
A balloon collapses when the gas escapes from it. Maunder.

2. To fail suddenly and completely, like something hollow when
subject to too much pressure; to undergo a collapse; as, Maximilian's
government collapsed soon after the French army left Mexico; many
financial projects collapse after attaining some success and
importance.

COLLAPSE
Col*lapse", n.

1. A falling together suddenly, as of the sides of a hollow vessel.

2. A sudden and complete failure; an utter failure of any kind; a
breakdown. [Colloq.]

3. (Med.)

Defn: Extreme depression or sudden failing o

COLLAPSION
Col*lap"sion, n. Etym: [L. collapsio.]

Defn: Collapse. [R.] Johnson.

COLLAR
Col"lar, n. Etym: [OE. coler, coller, OF. colier, F. collier,
necklace, collar, fr. OF. col neck, F. cou, fr. L. collum; akin to
AS. heals, G. & Goth. hals. Cf. Hals, n.]

1. Something worn round the neck, whether for use, ornament,
restraint, or identification; as, the collar of a coat; a lady's
collar; the collar of a dog.

2. (Arch.)
(a) A ring or cinture.
(b) A collar beam.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant and
its stem. Gray.

4. An ornament worn round the neck by knights, having on it devises
to designate their rank or order.

5. (Zoöl.)
(a) A ringlike part of a mollusk in connection with esophagus.
(b) A colored ring round the neck of a bird or mammal.

6. (Mech.)

Defn: A ring or round flange upon, surrounding, or against an object,
and used for rastraining motion within given limits, or for holding
something to its place, or for hibing an opening around an object;
as, a collar on a shaft, used to prevent endwise motion of the shaft;
a collar surrounding a stovepipe at the place where it enters a wall.
The flanges of a piston and the gland of a stuffing box are sometimes
called collars.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: An eye formed in the bight or bend of a shroud or stay to go
over the masthead; also, a rope to which certain parts of rigging, as
dead-eyes, are secured.

8. (Mining)

Defn: A curb, or a horizontal timbering, around the mouth of a shaft.
Raymond. Collar beam (Arch.), a horizontal piece of timber connecting
and tying together two opposite rafters; -- also, called simply
collar.
 -- Collar of brawn, the quantity of brawn bound up in one parcel.
[Eng.] Johnson.
 -- Collar day, a day of great ceremony at the English court, when
persons, who are dignitaries of honorary orders, wear the collars of
those orders.
 -- To slip the collar, to get free; to disentangle one's self from
difficulty, labor, or engagement. Spenser.

COLLAR
Col"lar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collared; p. pr. & vb. n. Collaring.]

1. To seize by the collar.

2. To put a collar on. To collar beef (or other meat), to roll it up,
and bind it close with a string preparatory to cooking it.

COLLAR BONE
Col"lar bone`. (Anat.)

Defn: The clavicle.

COLLARDS
Col"lards, n., pl. Etym: [Corrupted fr. colewort.]

Defn: Young cabbage, used as "greens"; esp. a kind cultivated for
that purpose; colewort. [Colloq. Souther U. S.]

COLLARED
Col"lared, a.

1. Wearing a collar. "Collared with gold." Chaucer.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearing
when a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.

3. Rolled up and bound close with a string; as, collared beef. See To
collar beef, under Collar, v. t.

COLLARET; COLLARETTE
Col`lar*et",  Col`la*rette", n. [F. collerette, dim. of collier. See
Collar.]

Defn: A small collar; specif., a woman's collar of lace, fur, or
other fancy material.

COLLATABLE
Col*lat"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being collated. Coleridge.

COLLATE
Col*late", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collated; p. pr. & vb. n. Collating.]
Etym: [From Collation.]

1. To compare critically, as books or manuscripts, in order to note
the points of agreement or disagreement.
I must collage it, word, with the original Hebrew. Coleridge.

2. To gather and place in order, as the sheets of a book for binding.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: To present and institute in a benefice, when the person
presenting is both the patron and the ordinary; -- followed by to.

4. To bestow or confer. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

COLLATE
Col*late", v. i. (Ecl.)

Defn: To place in a benefice, when the person placing is both the
patron and the ordinary.
If the bishop neglets to collate within six months, the right to do
it devolves on the archbishop. Encyc. Brit.

COLLATERAL
Col*lat"er*al, a. Etym: [LL. collateralis; col- + lateralis lateral.
See Lateral.]

1. Coming from, being on, or directed toward, the side; as,
collateral pressure. "Collateral light." Shak.

2. Acting in an indirect way.
If by direct or by collateral hand They find us touched, we will our
kingdom give . . . To you in satisfaction. Shak.

3. Related to, but not strictly a part of, the main thing or matter
under consideration; hence, subordinate; not chief or principal; as,
collateral interest; collateral issues.
That he [Attebury] was altogether in the wrong on the main question,
and on all the collateral questions springing out of it, . . . is
true. Macaulay.

4. Tending toward the same conclusion or result as something else;
additional; as, collateral evidence.
Yet the attempt may give Collateral interest to this homely tale.
Wordsworth.

5. (Genealogy)

Defn: Descending from the same stock or ancestor, but not in the same
line or branch or one from the other; -- opposed to lineal.

Note: Lineal descendants proceed one from another in a direct line;
collateral relations spring from a common ancestor, but from
different branches of that common stirps or stock. Thus the children
of brothers are collateral relations, having different fathers, but a
common grandfather. Blackstone.

Collateral assurance, that which is made, over and above the deed
itself.
 -- Collateral circulation (Med. & Physiol.), circulation established
through indirect or subordinate branches when the supply through the
main vessel is obstructed.
 -- Collateral issue. (Law) (a) An issue taken upon a matter aside
from the merits of the case. (b) An issue raised by a criminal
convict who pleads any matter allowed by law in bar of execution, as
pardon, diversity of person, etc. (c) A point raised, on cross-
examination, aside from the issue fixed by the pleadings, as to which
the answer of the witness, when given, cannot subsequently be
contradicted by the party asking the question.
 -- Collateral security, security for the performance of covenants,
or the payment of money, besides the principal security,

COLLATERAL
Col*lat"er*al, n.

1. A collateral relative. Ayliffe.

2. Collateral security; that which is pledged or deposited as
collateral security.

COLLATERALLY
Col*lat"er*al*ly, adv.

1. Side by side; by the side.
These pulleys . . . placed collaterally. Bp. Wilkins.

2. In an indirect or subordinate manner; indirectly.
The will hath force upon the conscience collaterally and indirectly.
Jer. Taylor.

3. In collateral relation; not lineally.

COLLATERALNESS
Col*lat"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being collateral.

COLLATION
Col*la"tion, n. Etym: [OE. collacioun speech, conference, reflection,
OF. collacion, F. collation, fr. L. collatio a bringing together,
comparing, fr. collatum (used as the supine of conferre); col- +
latium (used as the supine of ferre to bear), for tlatum. See
Tolerate, v. t.]

1. The act of collating or comparing; a comparison of one copy er
thing (as of a book, or manuscript) with another of a like kind;
comparison, in general. Pope.

2. (Print.)

Defn: The gathering and examination of sheets preparatory to binding.

3. The act of conferring or bestowing. [Obs.]
Not by the collation of the king . . . but by the people. Bacon.

4. A conference. [Obs.] Chaucer.

5. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: The presentation of a clergyman to a benefice by a bishop, who
has it in his own gift.

6. (Law)
(a) The act of comparing the copy of any paper with its original to
ascertain its conformity.
(b) The report of the act made by the proper officers.

7. (Scots Law)

Defn: The right which an heir has of throwing the whole heritable and
movable estates of the deceased into one mass, and sharing it equaly
with others who are of the same degree of kindred.

Note: This also obtains in the civil law, and is found in the code of
Louisiana. Bouvier.

8. (Eccles.)

Defn: A collection of the Lives of the Fathers or other devout work
read daily in monasteries.

9. A light repast or luncheon; as, a cold collation; -- first applied
to the refreshment on fast days that accompanied the reading of the
collation in monasteries.
A collation of wine and sweetmeats. Whiston.
Collation of seals (Old Law), a method of ascertaining the
genuineness of a seal by comparing it with another known to be
genuine. Bouvier.

COLLATION
Col*la"tion, v. i.

Defn: To partake of a collation. [Obs.]
May 20, 1658, I . . . collationed in Spring Garden. Evelyn.

COLLATIONER
Col*la"tion*er, n. (Print.)

Defn: One who examines the sheets of a book that has just been
printed, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.
[Eng.]

COLLATITIOUS
Col`la*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. collatitius. See Collation.]

Defn: Brought together; contributed; done by contributions. [Obs.]
Bailey.

COLLATIVE
Col*la"tive, a. Etym: [L. collativus brought together. ]

Defn: Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which the
bishop and the patron are the same person.

COLLATOR
Col*la"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who collates manuscripts, books, etc. Addison.

2. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: One who collates to a benefice.

3. One who confers any benefit. [Obs.] Feltham.

COLLAUD
Col*laud", v. t. Etym: [L. collaudare; col- + laudare to praise.]

Defn: To join in praising. [Obs.] Howell.

COLLEAGUE
Col"league, n. Etym: [F. coll*gue, L. collega one chosen at the same
time with another, a partner in office; col- + legare to send or
choose as deputy. See Legate.]

Defn: A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical office
or employment. It is never used of partners in trade or manufactures.

Syn.
 -- Helper; assistant; coadjutor; ally; associate; companion;
confederate.

COLLEAGUE
Col*league", v.t & i.

Defn: To unite or associate with another or with others. [R.] Shak.

COLLEAGUESHIP
Col"league*ship, n.

Defn: Partnership in office. Milton.

COLLECT
Col*lect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Collecting.] Etym: [L. collecrus, p. p. of collerige to bind
together; col- + legere to gather: cf. OF. collecter. See Legend, and
cf. Coil, v. t., Cull, v. t.]

1. To gather into one body or place; to assemble or bring together;
to obtain by gathering.
A band of men Collected choicely from each country. Shak.
'Tis memory alone that enriches the mind, by preserving what our
labor and industry daily collect. Watts.

2. To demand and obtain payment of, as an account, or other
indebtedness; as, to collect taxes.

3. To infer from observed facts; to conclude from premises.
[Archaic.] Shak.
Which sequence, I conceive, is very ill collected. Locke.
To collect one's self, to recover from surprise, embarrassment, or
fear; to regain self-control.

Syn.
 -- To gather; assemble; congregate; muster; accumulate; garner;
aggregate; amass; infer; deduce.

COLLECT
Col*lect", v. i.

1. To assemble together; as, the people collected in a crowd; to
accumulate; as, snow collects in banks.

2. To infer; to conclude. [Archaic]
Whence some collect that the former word imports a plurality of
persons. South.

COLLECT
Col"lect, n. Etym: [LL. collecta, fr. L. collecta a collection in
money; an assemblage, fr. collerige: cf. F. collecte. See Collect, v.
t.]

Defn: A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day,
occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy.
The noble poem on the massacres of Piedmont is strictly a collect in
verse. Macaulay.

COLLECTANEA
Col`lec*ta"ne*a, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl. from L. collectaneus
collected, fr. colligere. See Collect, v. t.]

Defn: Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes of
instruction; miscellany; anthology.

COLLECTED
Col*lect"ed, a.

1. Gathered together.

2. Self-possessed; calm; composed.

COLLECTEDLY
Col*lect"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Composedly; coolly.

COLLECTEDNESS
Col*lect"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A collected state of the mind; self-possession.

COLLECTIBLE
Col*lect"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being collected.

COLLECTION
Col*lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. collectio: cf. F. collection.]

1. The act or process of collecting or of gathering; as, the
collection of specimens.

2. That which is collected; as: (a) A gathering or assemblage of
objects or of persons. "A collection of letters." Macaulay.
(b) A gathering of money for charitable or other purposes, as by
passing a contribution box for freewill offerings. "The collection
for the saints." 1 Cor. xvi. 1
(c) (Usually in pl.) That which is obtained in payment of demands.
(d) An accumulation of any substance. "Collections of moisture."
Whewell. "A purulent collection." Dunglison.

3. The act of inferring or concluding from premises or observed
facts; also, that which is inferred. [Obs.]
We may safely say thus, that wrong collections have been hitherto
made out of those words by modern divines. Milton.

4. The jurisdiction of a collector of excise. [Eng.]

Syn.
 -- Gathering; assembly; assemblage; group; crowd; congregation;
mass; heap; compilation.

COLLECTIONAL
Col*lec"tion*al (-al), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to collecting.
The first twenty-five [years] must have been wasted for collectional
purposes. H. A. Merewether.

COLLECTIVE
Col*lect"ive, a. Etym: [L. collectivus: cf. F. collectif.]

1. Formed by gathering or collecting; gathered into a mass, sum, or
body; congregated or aggregated; as, the collective body of a nation.
Bp. Hoadley.

2. Deducing consequences; reasoning; inferring. [Obs.] "Critical and
collective reason." Sir T. Browne.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Expressing a collection or aggregate of individuals, by a
singular form; as, a collective name or noun, like assembly, army,
juri, etc.

4. Tending to collect; forming a collection.
Local is his throne . . . to fix a point, A central point, collective
of his sons. Young.

5. Having plurality of origin or authority; as, in diplomacy, a note
signed by the representatives of several governments is called a
collective note. Collective fruit (Bot.), that which is formed from a
mass of flowers, as the mulberry, pineapple, and the like; -- called
also multiple fruit. Gray.

COLLECTIVE
Col*lect"ive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A collective noun or name.

COLLECTIVELY
Col*lect"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate;
unitedly.

COLLECTIVENESS
Col*lect"ive*ness, n.

Defn: A state of union; mass.

COLLECTIVISM
Col*lect"iv*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. collectivisme.] (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by society
collectively or as a whole; communism. W. G. Summer.

COLLECTIVIST
Col*lect"iv*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. collectiviste.]

Defn: An advocate of collectivism.
 -- a.

Defn: Relating to, or characteristic of, collectivism.

COLLECTIVITY
Col`lec*tiv"i*ty, n.

1. Quality or state of being collective.

2.  The collective sum. aggregate, or mass of anything; specif., the
people as a body; the state.

The proposition to give work by the collectivity is supposed to be in
contravention of the sacred principle of monopolistic competition.
W. D. Howells.

3.  (Polit. Econ.) Collectivism.

COLLECTOR
Col*lect"or, n. Etym: [LL. collector one who collects: cf. F.
collecteur.]

1. One who collects things which are separate; esp., one who makes a
business or practice of collecting works of art, objects in natural
history, etc.; as, a collector of coins.
I digress into Soho to explore a bookstall. Methinks I have been
thirty years a collector. Lamb.

2. A compiler of books; one who collects scattered passages and puts
them together in one book.
Volumes without the collector's own reflections. Addison.

3. (Com.)

Defn: An officer appointed and commissioned to collect and receive
customs, duties, taxes, or toll.
A great part of this is now embezzled . . . by collectors, and other
officers. Sir W. Temple.

4. One authorized to collect debts.

5. A bachelor of arts in Oxford, formerly appointed to superintend
some scholastic proceedings in Lent. Todd.

COLLECTORATE
Col*lect"or*ate, n.

Defn: The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship.

COLLECTORSHIP
Col*lect"or*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a collector of customs or of taxes.

COLLEEN
Col*leen", n. [Ir. cailin.]

Defn: A girl; a maiden. [Anglo-Irish]

Of all the colleens in the land
Sweet Mollie is the daisy.
The Century.

COLLEGATARY
Col*leg"a*ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. collegetarius. See Legatary.] (Law)

Defn: A joint legatee.

COLLEGE
Col"lege, n. Etym: [F. collège, L. collegium, fr. collega colleague.
See Colleague.]

1. A collection, body, or society of persons engaged in common
pursuits, or having common duties and interests, and sometimes, by
charter, peculiar rights and privileges; as, a college of heralds; a
college of electors; a college of bishops.
The college of the cardinals. Shak.
Then they made colleges of sufferers; persons who, to secure their
inheritance in the world to come, did cut off all their portion in
this. Jer. Taylor.

2. A society of scholars or friends of learning, incorporated for
study or instruction, esp. in the higher branches of knowledge; as,
the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge Universities, and many American
colleges.

Note: In France and some other parts of continental Europe, college
is used to include schools occupied with rudimentary studies, and
receiving children as pupils.

3. A building, or number of buildings, used by a college. "The gate
of Trinity College." Macaulay.

4. Fig.: A community. [R.]
Thick as the college of the bees in May. Dryden.
College of justice, a term applied in Scotland to the supreme civil
courts and their principal officers.
 -- The sacred college, the college or cardinals at Rome.

COLLEGIAL
Col*le"gi*al, n. Etym: [LL. collegialis.]

Defn: Collegiate. [R.]

COLLEGIAN
Col*le"gi*an, n.

Defn: A member of a college, particularly of a literary institution
so called; a student in a college.

COLLEGIATE
Col*le"gi*ate, a. Etym: [L. collegiatus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; a
collegiate society. Johnson. Collegiate church. (a) A church which,
although not a bishop's seat, resembles a cathedral in having a
college, or chapter of canons (and, in the Church of England, a
dean), as Westminster Abbey. (b) An association of churches,
possessing common revenues and administered under the joint pastorate
of several ministers; as, the Reformed (Dutch) Collegiate Church of
New York.

COLLEGIATE
Col*le"gi*ate, n.

Defn: A member of a college. Burton.

COLLEMBOLA
Col*lem"bo*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and allied
forms.

COLLENCHYMA
Col*len"chy*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. parenchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the angles
and (usually) elongated.

COLLET
Col"let, n. Etym: [F. collet, dim. fr. L. collum neck. See Collar.]

1. A small collar or neckband. Foxe.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as,
the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem,
for holding a drill.

3. (Jewelry)
(a) The part of a ring containing the bezel in which the stone is
set.
(b) The flat table at the base of a brilliant. See Illust. of
Brilliant.
How full the collet with his jewel is! Cowley.

COLLETERIAL
Col`le*te"ri*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects. R. Owen.

COLLETERIUM
Col`le*te"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Colletic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite the
ejected ova.

COLLETIC
Col*let"ic, a. Etym: [L. colleticus suitable for gluing, Gr.

Defn: Agglutinant.
 -- n.

Defn: An agglutinant.

COLLEY
Col"ley, n.

Defn: See Collie.

COLLIDE
Col*lide", v. i. Etym: [L. collidere, collisum; col- + laedere to
strike. See Lesion.]

Defn: To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision;
to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided.
Across this space the attraction urges them. They collide, they
recoil, they oscillate. Tyndall.
No longer rocking and swaying, but clashing and colliding. Carlyle.

COLLIDE
Col*lide", v. t.

Defn: To strike or dash against. [Obs.]
Scintillations are . . . inflammable effluencies from the bodies
collided. Sir T. Browne.

COLLIDINE
Col"li*dine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oily
liquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from bone
oil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids.

COLLIE
Col"lie, n. Etym: [Gael. cuilean whelp, puppy, dog.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-haired
and smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayed
especially in caring for flocks. [Written also colly, colley.]

COLLIED
Col"lied, p. & a.

Defn: Darkened. See Colly, v. t.

COLLIER
Col"lier, n. Etym: [OE. colier. See Coal.]

1. One engaged in the business of digging mineral coal or making
charcoal, or in transporting or dealing in coal.

2. A vessel employed in the coal trade.

COLLIERY
Col"lier*y, n.; pl. Collieries. Etym: [Cf. Coalery, Collier.]

1. The place where coal is dug; a coal mine, and the buildings, etc.,
belonging to it.

2. The coal trade. [Obs.] Johnson.

COLLIFLOWER
Col"li*flow`er, n.

Defn: See Cauliflower.

COLLIGATE
Col"li*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Colligated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Colligating.] Etym: [L. colligatus, p. p. of colligare to collect;
co- + ligare to bind.]

1. To tie or bind together.
The pieces of isinglass are colligated in rows. Nicholson.

2. (Logic)

Defn: To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a single
proposition.
He had discovered and colligated a multitude of the most wonderful .
. . phenomena. Tundall.

COLLIGATE
Col"li*gate, a.

Defn: Bound together.

COLLIGATION
Col`li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. colligatio.]

1. A binding together. Sir T. Browne.

2. (Logic)

Defn: That process by which a number of isolated facts are brought
under one conception, or summed up in a general proposition, as when
Kepler discovered that the various observed positions of the planet
Mars were points in an ellipse. "The colligation of facts." Whewell.
Colligation is not always induction, but induction is always
colligation. J. S. Mill.

COLLIMATE
Col"li*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collimated; p. p. & vb. n.
Collimating.] Etym: [See Collimation.] (Physics & Astron.)

Defn: To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bring
into the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to render
parallel, as rays of light.

Collimating eyepiece, an eyepiece with a diagonal reflector for
illumination, used to determine the error of collimation in a transit
instrument by observing the image of a cross wire reflected from
mercury, and comparing its position in the field with that of the
same wire seen directly.
 -- Collimating lens (Optics), a lens used for producing parallel
rays of light.

COLLIMATION
Col`li*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. collimation, fr. a false reading
(collimare) for L. collineare to direct in a straight line; col- +
linea line. Cf. Collineation.]

Defn: The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of the
sights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into its
proper position relative to the other parts of the instrument. Error
of collimation, the deviation of the line collimation of an
astronomical instrument from the position it ought to have with
respect to the axis of motion of the instrument.
 -- Line of collimation, the axial line of the telescope of an
astronomical or geodetic instrument, or the line which passes through
the optical center of the object glass and the intersection of the
cross wires at its focus.

COLLIMATOR
Col"li*ma`tor, n.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A telescope arranged and used to determine errors of
collimation, both vertical and horizontal. Nichol.

2. (Optics)

Defn: A tube having a convex lens at one end and at the other a small
opening or slit which is at the principal focus of the lens, used for
producing a beam of parallel rays; also, a lens so used.

COLLIN
Col"lin, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A very pure form of gelatin.

COLLINE
Col"line, n. Etym: [F. colline, fr. L. collis a hill.]

Defn: A small hill or mount. [Obs.]
And watered park, full of fine collines and ponds. Evelyn.

COLLINEATION
Col*lin`e*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. collineare to direct in a straight
line. See Collimation.]

Defn: The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixed
object. [R.] Johnson.

COLLING
Coll"ing, n. Etym: [From Coll, v. t.]

Defn: An embrace; dalliance. [Obs.] Halliwell.

COLLINGLY
Coll"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With embraces. [Obs.] Gascoigne.

COLLINGUAL
Col*lin"gual, a.

Defn: Having, or pertaining to, the same language.

COLLIQUABLE
Col*liq"ua*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid. [Obs.] Harvey.

COLLIQUAMENT
Col*liq"ua*ment, n.

Defn: The first rudiments of an embryo in generation. Dr. H. More.

COLLIQUATE
Col"li*quate, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Colliquated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Colliquating.] Etym: [Pref. col- + L. liquare, liquatum, to melt.]

Defn: To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; to
melt. [Obs.]
The ore of it is colliquated by the violence of the fire. Boyle.
[Ice] will colliquate in water or warm oil. Sir T. Browne.

COLLIQUATION
Col`li*qua"tion, n.

1. A melting together; the act of melting; fusion.
When sand and ashes are well melted together and suffered to cool,
there is generated, by the colliquation, that sort of concretion we
call "glass". Boyle.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A processive wasting or melting away of the solid parts of the
animal system with copious excretions of liquids by one or more
passages. [Obs.]

COLLIQUATIVE
Col*liq"ua*tive, a.

Defn: Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, collequative
sweats.

COLLIQUEFACTION
Col*liq`ue*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. colliquefactus melted; col- +
liquefacere; liquere to be liquid + facere to make.]

Defn: A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into one
mass by fusion.
The incorporation of metals by simple colliquefaction. Bacon.

COLLISH
Col"lish, n. (Shoemaking)

Defn: A tool to polish the edge of a sole. Knight.

COLLISION
Col*li"sion, n. Etym: [L. collisio, fr. collidere. See Collide.]

1. The act of striking together; a striking together, as of two hard
bodies; a violent meeting, as of railroad trains; a clashing.

2. A state of opposition; antagonism; interference.
The collision of contrary false principles. Bp. Warburton.
Sensitive to the most trifling collisions. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- Conflict; clashing; encounter; opposition.

COLLISIVE
Col*li"sive, a.

Defn: Colliding; clashing. [Obs.]

COLLITIGANT
Col*lit"i*gant, a.

Defn: Disputing or wrangling. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: One who litigates or wrangles. [Obs.]

COLLOCATE
Col"lo*cate, a. Etym: [L. collocatus, p. p. of collocare. See Couch.]

Defn: Set; placed. [Obs.] Bacon.

COLLOCATE
Col"lo*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collocated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Collocating.]

Defn: To set or place; to set; to station.
To marshal and collocate in order his battalions. E. Hall.

COLLOCATION
Col`lo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. collocatio.]

Defn: The act of placing; the state of being placed with something
else; disposition in place; arrangement.
The choice and collocation of words. Sir W. Jones.

COLLOCUTION
Col`lo*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. collocutio, fr. colloqui, -locutum, to
converse; col- + loqui to speak. See Loquacious.]

Defn: A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutual
discourse. Bailey.

COLLOCUTOR
Col"lo*cu`tor, n. Etym: [L. collocutor]

Defn: One of the speakers in a dialogue. Derham.

COLLODION
Col*lo"di*on, n. Etym: [Gr. Colloid.] (Chem.)

Defn: A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ether
containing a varying proportion of alcohol. It is strongly adhesive,
and is used by surgeons as a containing for wounds; but its chief
application is as a vehicle for the sensitive film in photography.
Collodion process (Photog.), a process in which a film of sensitized
collodion is used in preparing the plate for taking a picture.
 -- Styptic collodion, collodion containing an astringent, as tannin.

COLLODIONIZE
Col*lo"di*on*ize, v. t.

Defn: To prepare or treat with collodion. R. Hunt.

COLLODIOTYPE
Col*lo"di*o*type, n.

Defn: A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype or
ambrotype.

COLLODIUM
Col*lo"di*um, n.

Defn: See Collodion.

COLLOGUE
Col*logue", v. i. Etym: [Cf. L. colloqui and E. dialogue. Cf.
Collocution.]

Defn: To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse,
especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief. [Archaic or
Colloq.]
Pray go in; and, sister, salve the matter, Collogue with her again,
and all shall be well. Greene.
He had been colloguing with my wife. Thackeray.

COLLOID
Col"loid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid. Cf. Collodion.]

Defn: Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylike
appearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors.

COLLOID
Col"loid, n.

1. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance (as albumin, gum, gelatin, etc.) which is of a
gelatinous rather than a crystalline nature, and which diffuses
itself through animal membranes or vegetable parchment more slowly
than crystalloids do; -- opposed to crystalloid.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A gelatinous substance found in colloid degeneration and
colloid cancer. Styptic colloid (Med.), a preparation of astringent
and antiseptic substances with some colloid material, as collodion,
for ready use.

COLLOIDAL
Col*loid"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids.

COLLOIDALITY
Col`loi*dal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being colloidal.

COLLOP
Col"lop, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; cf. OF. colp blow, stroke,
piece, F. coup, fr. L. colophus buffet, cuff, Gr. [Written also
colp.]

1. A small slice of meat; a piece of flesh.
God knows thou art a collop of my flesh. Shak.
Sweetbread and collops were with skewers pricked. Dryden.

2. A part or piece of anything; a portion.
Cut two good collops out of the crown land. Fuller.

COLLOPED
Col"loped, a.

Defn: Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops.
With that red, gaunt, and colloped neck astrain. R. Browning.

COLLOPHORE
Col"lo*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) A suckerlike organ at the base of the abdomen of insects
belonging to the Collembola.
(b) An adhesive marginal organ of the Lucernariae.

COLLOQUIAL
Col*lo"qui*al, a. Etym: [See Colloqui.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common and
familiar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal;
as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style.
 -- Col*lo"qui*al*ly, adv.
His [Johnson's] colloquial talents were, indeed, of the highest
order. Macaulay.

COLLOQUIALISM
Col*lo"qui*al*ism, n.

Defn: A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse or
writing.

COLLOQUIALIZE
Col*lo"qui*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one's
style of writing.

COLLOQUIST
Col"lo*quist, n.

Defn: A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue. Malone.

COLLOQUY
Col"lo*quy, n.; pl. Colloquies. Etym: [L. colloquium. See
Collocution.]

1. Mutual discourse of two or more persons; conference; conversation.
They went to Worms, to the colloquy there about religion. A. Wood.

2. In some American colleges, a part in exhibitions, assigned for a
certain scholarship rank; a designation of rank in collegiate
scholarship.

COLLOTYPE
Col"lo*type, n. [Gr.  glue + -type.]

Defn: A photomechanical print made directly from a hardened film of
gelatin or other colloid; also, the process of making such prints.
According to one method, the film is sensitized with potassium
dichromate and exposed to light under a reversed negative. After the
dichromate has been washed out, the film is soaked in glycerin and
water. As this treatment causes swelling in those parts of the film
which have been acted on by light, a plate results from which
impressions can be taken with prepared ink. The albertype, phototype,
and heliotype are collotypes.

COLLOW
Col"low, n.

Defn: Soot; smut. See 1st Colly. [Obs.]

COLLUCTANCY
Col*luc"tan*cy, n. Etym: [L. colluctari to struggle with.]

Defn: A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance;
opposition of nature. [Obs.]

COLLUCTATION
Col`luc*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. colluctatio, fr. colluctari to struggle
with; col- + luctari to struggle.]

Defn: A struggling; a contention. [Obs.]
Colluctation with old hags and hobgoblins. Dr. H. More.

COLLUDE
Col*lude", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Colluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Colluding.]
Etym: [L. colludere, -lusum; col- + ludere to play. See Ludicrous.]

Defn: To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to play
into each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert.
If they let things take their course, they will be represented as
colluding with sedition. Burke.

COLLUDER
Col*lud"er, n.

Defn: One who conspires in a fraud.

COLLUM
Col"lum, n.; pl. Colla. Etym: [L., neck.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A neck or cervix. Dunglison.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Collar. Gray.

COLLUSION
Col*lu"sion, n. Etym: [L. collusio: cf. F. collusion. See Collude.]

1. A secret agreement and cooperation for a fraudulent or deceitful
purpose; a playing into each other's hands; deceit; fraud; cunning.
The foxe, maister of collusion. Spenser.
That they [miracles] be done publicly, in the face of the world, that
there may be no room to suspect artifice and collusion. Atterbury.
By the ignorance of the merchants or dishonesty of the weavers, or
the collusion of both, the ware was bad and the price excessive.
Swift.

2. (Law)

Defn: An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person of
his rights, by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden by
law. Bouvier. Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Collusion, Connivance. A person who is guilty of connivance
intentionally overlooks, and thus sanctions what he was bound to
prevent. A person who is guilty of collusion unites with others
(playing into their hands) for fraudulent purposes.

COLLUSIVE
Col*lu"sive, a.

1. Characterized by collusion; done or planned in collusion.
"Collusive and sophistical arguings." J. Trapp. "Collusive divorces."
Strype.

2. Acting in collusion. "Collusive parties." Burke.
 -- Col*lu"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Col*lu"sive*ness, n.

COLLUSORY
Col*lu"so*ry, a. Etym: [L. collusorius.]

Defn: Collusive.

COLLUTORY
Col"lu*to*ry, n. Etym: [L. colluere, collutum, to wash.] (Med.)

Defn: A medicated wash for the mouth.

COLLUVIES
Col*lu"vi*es, n. [L., a collection of washings, dregs, offscourings,
fr. colluere to wash; col-+ luere to wash.]

1. A collection or gathering, as of pus, or rubbish, or odds and
ends.

2.  A medley; offscourings or rabble.

COLLY
Col"ly, n. Etym: [From Coal.]

Defn: The black grime or soot of coal. [Obs.] Burton.

COLLY
Col"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Collied; p. pr. & vb. n. Collying.]

Defn: To render black or dark, as of with coal smut; to begrime.
[Archaic.]
Thou hast not collied thy face enough. B. Jonson.
Brief as the lighting in the collied night. Shak.

COLLY
Col"ly, n.

Defn: A kind of dog. See Collie.

COLLYBIST
Col"ly*bist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A money changer. [Obs.]
In the face of these guilty collybists. Bp. Hall.

COLLYRIUM
Col*lyr"i*um, n.; pl. E. Collyriums, L. Collyria. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.
(Med.)

Defn: An application to the eye, usually an eyewater.

COLOBOMA
Col`o*bo"ma, n. [NL. fr. Gr. , the part taken away in mutilation, fr.
to mutilate.] (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: A defect or malformation; esp., a fissure of the iris supposed
to be a persistent embryonic cleft.

COLOCOLO
Col`o*co"lo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of the
ocelot.

COLOCYNTH
Col"ocynth, n. Etym: [L. colocynthis, Gr. Coloquintida.] (Med.)

Defn: The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber
(Citrullus, or Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to the
watermelon; coloquintida. It comes in white balls, is intensely
bitter, and a powerful cathartic. Called also bitter apple, bitter
cucumber, bitter gourd.

COLOCYNTHIN
Col`o*cyn"thin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colocynthine.] (Chem.)

Defn: The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow,
crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside.

COLOGNE
Co*logne", n. Etym: [Originally made in Cologne, the French name of
Köln, a city in Germany.]

Defn: A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromatic
oils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau de
cologne.

COLOGNE EARTH
Co*logne" earth`. Etym: [From Cologne the city.] (Min.)

Defn: An earth of a deep brown color, containing more vegetable than
mineral matter; an earthy variety of lignite, or brown coal.

COLOMBIER
Col"om*bier, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.

COLOMBIN
Co*lom"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Calumbin.

COLOMBO
Co*lom"bo, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLON
Co"lon, n. Etym: [L. colon, colum, limb, member, the largest of the
intestines, fr. Gr. colon. Cf. Colic.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the large intestines which extends from the cæcum
to the rectum.

Note: [See Illust of Digestion.]

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A point or character, formed thus [:], used to separate parts
of a sentence that are complete in themselves and nearly independent,
often taking the place of a conjunction.

COLONEL
Colo"nel, n. Etym: [F. colonel, It. colonello, prop., the chief or
commander of a column, fr. colonna column, L. columna. See Column.]
(Mil.)

Defn: The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next above
a lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general.

COLONELCY
Colo"nel*cy, n. (Mil.)

Defn: The office, rank, or commission of a colonel.

COLONELSHIP
Colo"nel*ship, n.

Defn: Colonelcy. Swift.

COLONER
Col"o*ner, n.

Defn: A colonist. [Obs.] Holland

COLONIAL
Co*lo"ni*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. colonial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic,
wars.

COLONIALISM
Co*lo"ni*al*ism, n.

1. The state or quality of, or the relationship involved in, being
colonial.

The last tie of colonialism which bound us to the mother country is
broken.
Brander Matthews.

2.  A custom, idea, feature of government, or the like,
characteristic of a colony.

3.  The colonial system or policy in political government or
extension of territory.

COLONICAL
Co*lon"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. colonus husbandman.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to husbandmen. [Obs.]

COLONIST
Col"o*nist, n.

Defn: A member or inhabitant of a colony.

COLONITIS
Col`o*ni"tis, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Colitis.

COLONIZATION
Col`o*ni*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colonisation.]

Defn: Tha act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; the
formation of a colony or colonies.
The wide continent of America invited colonization. Bancroft.

COLONIZATIONIST
Col`o*ni*za"tion*ist, n.

Defn: A friend to colonization, esp. (U. S. Hist) to the colonization
of Africa by emigrants from the colored population of the United
States.

COLONIZE
Col"o*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Colonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Colonizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. coloniser.]

Defn: To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people with
colonists; to migrate to and settle in. Bacon.
They that would thus colonize the stars with inhabitants. Howell.

COLONIZE
Col"o*nize, v. i.

Defn: To remove to, and settle in, a distant country; to make a
colony. C. Buchanan.

COLONIZER
Col"o*ni`zer, n.

Defn: One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist. Bancroft.

COLONNADE
Col`on*nade", n. Etym: [F. colonnade, It. colonnata, fr. colonna
column. See Colonel.] (Arch.)

Defn: A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals with
all the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.

Note: When in front of a building, it is called a portico; when
surrounding a building or an open court or square, a peristyle.

COLONY
Col"o*ny, n.; pl. Colonies. Etym: [L. colonia, fr. colonus farmer,
fr. colere to cultivate, dwell: cf. F. colonie. Cf. Culture.]

1. A company of people transplanted from their mother country to a
remote province or country, and remaining subject to the jurisdiction
of the parent state; as, the British colonies in America.
The first settlers of New England were the best of Englishmen, well
educated, devout Christians, and zealous lovers of liberty. There was
never a colony formed of better materials. Ames.

2. The district or country colonized; a settlement.

3. A company of persons from the same country sojourning in a foreign
city or land; as, the American colony in Paris.

4. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A number of animals or plants living or growing together,
beyond their usual range.

COLOPHANY
Col"o*pha`ny ( or ), n.

Defn: See Colophony.

COLOPHENE
Co"lo*phene ( or ), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation of
colophony. It is regarded as a polymeric form of terebenthene. Called
also diterebene.

COLOPHON
Col"o*phon, n. Etym: [L. colophon finishing stroke, Gr. culmen top,
collis hill. Cf. Holm.]

Defn: An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place and
date of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on the
last page of a book.
The colophon, or final description, fell into disuse, and . . . the
title page had become the principal direct means of identifying the
book. De Morgan.
The book was uninjured from title page to colophon. Sir W. Scott.

COLOPHONITE
Col"o*pho*nite ( or ), n. Etym: [Cf. F. colophonite. So named from
its resemblance to the color of colophony.] (Min.)

Defn: A coarsely granular variety of garnet.

COLOPHONY
Col"o*pho`ny ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Rosin.

COLOQUINTIDA
Col`o*quin"ti*da, n.

Defn: See Colocynth. Shak.

COLOR
Col"or, n. [Written also colour.] Etym: [OF. color, colur, colour, F.
couleur, L. color; prob. akin to celare to conceal (the color taken
as that which covers). See Helmet.]

1. A property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by
which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of
objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc.

Note: The sensation of color depends upon a peculiar function of the
retina or optic nerve, in consequence of which rays of light produce
different effects according to the length of their waves or
undulations, waves of a certain length producing the sensation of
red, shorter waves green, and those still shorter blue, etc. White,
or ordinary, light consists of waves of various lengths so blended as
to produce no effect of color, and the color of objects depends upon
their power to absorb or reflect a greater or less proportion of the
rays which fall upon them.

2. Any hue distinguished from white or black.

3. The hue or color characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy
complexion.
Give color to my pale cheek. Shak.

4. That which is used to give color; a paint; a pigment; as, oil
colors or water colors.

5. That which covers or hides the real character of anything;
semblance; excuse; disguise; appearance.
They had let down the boat into the sea, under color as though they
would have cast anchors out of the foreship. Acts xxvii. 30.
That he should die is worthy policy; But yet we want a color for his
death. Shak.

6. Shade or variety of character; kind; species.
Boys and women are for the most part cattle of this color. Shak.

7. A distinguishing badge, as a flag or similar symbol (usually in
the plural); as, the colors or color of a ship or regiment; the
colors of a race horse (that is, of the cap and jacket worn by the
jockey).
In the United States each regiment of infantry and artillery has two
colors, one national and one regimental. Farrow.

8. (Law)

Defn: An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to
the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially,
thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. Blackstone.

Note: Color is express when it is asverred in the pleading, and
implied when it is implied in the pleading. Body color. See under
Body.
 -- Color blindness, total or partial inability to distinguish or
recognize colors. See Daltonism.
 -- Complementary color, one of two colors so related to each other
that when blended together they produce white light; -- so called
because each color makes up to the other what it lacks to make it
white. Artificial or pigment colors, when mixed, produce effects
differing from those of the primary colors, in consequence of partial
absorption.
 -- Of color (as persons, races, etc.), not of the white race; --
commonly meaning, esp. in the United States, of negro blood, pure or
mixed.
 -- Primary colors, those developed from the solar beam by the prism,
viz., red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, which are
reduced by some authors to three, -- red, green, and violet-blue.
These three are sometimes called fundamental colors.
 -- Subjective or Accidental color, a false or spurious color seen in
some instances, owing to the persistence of the luminous impression
upon the retina, and a gradual change of its character, as where a
wheel perfectly white, and with a circumference regulary subdiveded,
is made to revolve rapidly over a dark object, the teeth, of the
wheel appear to the eye of different shades of color varying with the
rapidity of rotation. See Accidental colors, under Accidental.

COLOR
Col"or, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Colored; p. pr. & vb. n. Coloring.] Etym:
[F. colorer.]

1. To change or alter the bue or tint of, by dyeing, staining,
painting, etc.; to dye; to tinge; to aint; to stain.
The rays, to speak properly, are not colored; in them there is
nothing else than a certain power and disposition to stir up a
sensation of this or that color. Sir I. Newton.

2. To change or alter, as if by dyeing or painting; to give a false
appearance to; usually, to give a specious appearance to; to cause to
appear attractive; to make plausible; to palliate or excuse; as, the
facts were colored by his prejudices.
He colors the falsehood of Æneas by an express command from Jupiter
to forsake the queen. Dryden.

3. To hide. [Obs.]
That by his fellowship he color might Both his estate and love from
skill of any wight. Spenser.

COLOR
Col"or, v. i.

Defn: To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to
blush.

COLORABLE
Col"or*a*ble, a.

Defn: Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice.
"Colorable pretense for infidility." Bp. Stillingfleet.
 -- Col"or*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Col"or*a*bly, adv.
Colorable and subtle crimes, that seldom are taken within the walk of
human justice. Hooker.

COLORADO BEETLE
Col`o*ra"do bee"tle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with ten
longitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards from
its original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to the
potato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potato
beetle.

COLORADO GROUP
Col`o*ra"do group. (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western North
America, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouri
region.

COLORADOITE
Col`o*ra"do*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found in
Colorado.

COLORATE
Col"or*ate, a. Etym: [L. coloratus, p. p. of colorare to color.]

Defn: Colored. [Obs.] Ray.

COLORATION
Col`or*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored. Bacon.
The females . . . resemble each other in their general type of
coloration. Darwin.

COLORATURE
Col"or*a*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. G. coloratur, fr. LL. coloratura.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, or
rapid passages.

COLOR-BLIND
Col"or-blind, a.

Defn: Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, under
Color, n.

COLORED
Col"ored, a.

1. Having color; tinged; dyed; painted; stained.
The lime rod, colored as the glede. Chaucer.
The colored rainbow arched wide. Spenser.

2. Specious; plausible; aborned so as to appear well; as, a highly
colored description. Sir G. C. Lewis.
His colored crime with craft to cloke. Spenser.

3. Of some other color than black or white.

4. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroes
or persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people.

5. (Bot.)

Defn: Of some other color than green.
Colored, meaning, as applied to foliage, of some other color than
green. Gray.

Note: In botany, green is not regarded as a color, but white is.
Wood.

COLORIFIC
Col`or*if"ic, a. Etym: [L. color color + facere to make: cf. F.
colorifique.]

Defn: Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies.

COLORIMETER
Col`or*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [Color + -meter: cf. F. colorimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything,
especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid.

COLORIMETRY
Col`or*im"e*try, n. [See Colorimeter.]

1.

Defn: The quantitative determination of the depth of color of a
substance.

2.  A method of quantitative chemical analysis based upon the
comparison of the depth of color of a solution with that of a
standard liquid.

COLORING
Col"or*ing, n.

1. The act of applying color to; also, that which produces color.

2. Change of appearance as by addition of color; appearance; show;
disguise; misrepresentation.
Tell the whole story without coloring or gloss. Compton Reade.
Dead coloring. See under Dead.

COLORIST
Col"or*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coloriste.]

Defn: One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; one
to whom coloring is of prime importance.
Titian, Paul Veronese, Van Dyck, and the rest of the good colorists.
Dryden.

COLORLESS
Col"or*less, a.

1. Without color; not distinguished by any hue; transparent; as,
colorless water.

2. Free from any manifestation of partial or peculiar sentiment or
feeling; not disclosing likes, dislikes, prejudice, etc.; as,
colorless music; a colorless style; definitions should be colorless.

COLORMAN
Col"or*man, n.; pl. Colormen.

Defn: A vender of paints, etc. Simmonds.

COLOR SERGEANT
Col"or ser"geant.

Defn: See under Sergeant.

COLOSSAL
Co*los"sal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cossal, L. colosseus. See Colossus.]

1. Of enormous size; gigantic; huge; as, a colossal statue. "A
colossal stride." Motley.

2. (Sculpture & Painting)

Defn: Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic.

COLOSSEAN
Col`os*se"an, a.

Defn: Colossal. [R.]

COLOSSEUM
Col`os*se"um, n. Etym: [Neut., fr. L. coloseus gigantic. See
Coliseum.]

Defn: The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.]

COLOSSUS
Co*los"sus, n.; pl. L. Colossi, E. Colossuses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A statue of gigantic size. The name was especially applied to
certain famous statues in antiquity, as the Colossus of Nero in Rome,
the Colossus of Apollo at Rhodes.
He doth bestride the narrow world Like a colossus. Shak.

Note: There is no authority for the statement that the legs of the
Colossus at Rhodes extended over the mouth of the harbor. Dr. Wm.
Smith.

2. Any man or beast of gigantic size.

COLOSTRUM
Co*los"trum, n. Etym: [L., biestings.] (Med.)
(a) The first milk secreted after delivery; biestings.
(b) A mixture of turpentine and the yolk of an egg, formerly used as
an emulsion.

COLOTOMY
Co*lot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An operation for opening the colon

COLOUR
Col"our, n.

Defn: See Color.

COLP
Colp, n.

Defn: See Collop.

COLPORTAGE
Col"por`tage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., by
colporteurs.

COLPORTER
Col"por`ter, n.

Defn: Same as Colporteur.

COLPORTEUR
Col"por`teur, n. Etym: [F. colporteur one who carries on his neck,
fr. colporter to carry on one's neck; col (L. collum) neck + porter
(L. portare) to carry.]

Defn: A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling and
distributing religious tracts and books.

COLSTAFF
Col"staff`, n. Etym: [F. col neck + E. staff. Cf. Coll.]

Defn: A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on
their shoulders.

COLT
Colt (; 110), n. Etym: [OE. colt a young horse, ass, or camel, AS.
colt; cf. dial. Sw. kullt a boy, lad.]

1. The young of the equine genus or horse kind of animals; --
sometimes distinctively applied to the male, filly being the female.
Cf. Foal.

Note: In sporting circles it is usual to reckon the age of colts from
some arbitrary date, as from January 1, or May 1, next preceding the
birth of the animal.

2. A young, foolish fellow. Shak.

3. A short knotted rope formerly used as an instrument of punishment
in the navy. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Colt's tooth, an imperfect or
superfluous tooth in young horses.
 -- To cast one's colt's tooth, to cease from youthful wantonness.
"Your colt's tooth is not cast yet." Shak.
 -- To have a colt's tooth, to be wanton. Chaucer.

COLT
Colt (; 110), v. i.

Defn: To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously or
wantonly. [Obs.]
They shook off their bridles and began to colt. Spenser.

COLT
Colt, v. t.

1. To horse; to get with young. Shak.

2. To befool. [Obs.] Shak.

COLTER
Col"ter, n. Etym: [AS. culter, fr. L. culter plowshare, knife. Cf.
Cutlass.]

Defn: A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the
sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. [Written also
coulter.]

COLTISH
Colt"ish, a.

Defn: Like a colt; wanton; frisky.
He was all coltish, full of ragery. Chaucer.
-- Colt"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Colt"ish*ness, n.

COLT PISTOL
Colt pistol. (Firearms)

Defn: A self-loading or semi-automatic pistol with removable magazine
in the handle holding seven cartridges. The recoil extracts and
ejects the empty cartridge case, and reloads ready for another shot.
Called also Browning, and Colt-Browning, pistol.

COLT REVOLVER
Colt revolver. (Firearms)

Defn: A revolver made according to a system using a patented
revolving cylinder, holding six cartridges, patented by Samuel Colt,
an American inventor, in 1835. With various modifications, it has for
many years been the standard for the United States army.

COLTSFOOT
Colts"foot`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves and
rootstock are sometimes employed in medicine. Butterbur coltsfoot
(Bot.), a European plant (Petasites vulgaris).

COLT'S TOOTH
Colt's" tooth`.

Defn: See under Colt.

COLUBER
Col"u*ber, n. Etym: [L., a serpent.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of harmless serpents.

Note: Linnæus placed in this genus all serpents, whether venomous or
not, whose scales beneath the tail are arranged in pairs; but by
modern writers it is greatly restricted.

COLUBRINE
Col"u*brine, a. Etym: [L. colubrinus.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.

2. Like a snake; cunning; crafty. Johnson.

COLUGO
Co*lu"go, n. Etym: [Prob. an aboriginal name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having
along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike
membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the
flying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur.

COLUMBA
Co*lum"ba, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLUMBAE
Co*lum"bæ, n. pl.; Etym: [L. columba pigeon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including the pigeons.

COLUMBARIUM
Col`um*ba"ri*um, n.; pl. L. Columbaria Etym: [L. See Columbary.]
(Rom. Antiq.)
(a) A dovecote or pigeon house.
(b) A sepulchral chamber with niches for holding cinerary urns.

COLUMBARY
Col"um*ba*ry, n.; pl. Columbaries. Etym: [L. columbarium, fr. columba
a dove.]

Defn: A dovecote; a pigeon house. Sir T. Browne.

COLUMBATE
Co*lum"bate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colombate. See Columbium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.

COLUMBATZ FLY
Co*lum"batz fly`. Etym: [From Kolumbatz, a mountain in Germany.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo.

COLUMBELLA
Col`um*bel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. columba a dove. So called
from a fancied resemblance in color and form, of some species.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of univale shells, abundant in tropical seas. Some
species, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money.

COLUMBIA
Co*lum"bi*a, n.

Defn: America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in
honor of Columbus, the discoverer. Dr. T. Dwight.

COLUMBIAD
Co*lum"bi*ad, n. Etym: [From Columbia the United States.] (Mil.)

Defn: A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed for
throwing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high angles
of elevation.

Note: Since the War of 1812 the Columbiad has been much modified form
now used in seacoast defense is often called the Rodman gun.

COLUMBIAN
Co*lum"bi*an, a. Etym: [From Columbia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.

COLUMBIC
Co*lum"bic, a. Etym: [From Columbium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.
Columbic acid (Chem.), a weak acid derived from columbic or niobic
oxide, Nb2O5; -- called also niobic acid.

COLUMBIC
Co*lum"bic, a. Etym: [From Columbo.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the columbo root. Columbic acid
(Chem.), an organic acid extracted from the columbo root as a bitter,
yellow, amorphous substance.

COLUMBIER
Co*lum"bi*er, n.

Defn: See Colombier.

COLUMBIFEROUS
Col"um*bif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Columbium + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing or containing columbium.

COLUMBIN
Co*lum"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.

COLUMBINE
Col"um*bine, a. Etym: [L. columbinus, fr. columba dove.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored. "Columbine
innocency." Bacon.

COLUMBINE
Col"um*bine, n. Etym: [LL. columbina, L. columbinus dovelike, fr.
columba dove: cf. F. colombine. Perh. so called from the beaklike
spurs of its flowers.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of several species of the genus Aquilegia; as, A.
vulgaris, or the common garden columbine; A. Canadensis, the wild red
columbine of North America.

2. The mistress or sweetheart of Harlequin in pantomimes. Brewer.

COLUMBITE
Co*lum"bite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colombite. See Columbium.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and high
specific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron and
manganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in New
England.

COLUMBIUM
Co*lum"bi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Columbia America.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a variety
of the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably at
Haddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly called
niobium.

COLUMBO
Co*lum"bo, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLUMBUS DAY
Co*lum"bus Day.

Defn: The 12th day of October, on which day in 1492 Christopher
Columbus discovered America, landing on one of the Bahama Islands
(probably the one now commonly called Watling Island), and naming it
"San Salvador"; -- called also Discovery Day. This day is made a
legal holiday in many States of The United States.

COLUMELLA
Col`u*mel"la, n. Etym: [L., dim. of columen column. See Column.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) An axis to which a carpel of a compound pistil may be attached,
as in the case of the geranium; or which is left when a pod opens.
(b) A columnlike axis in the capsule of mosses.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columnella,
or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella of
the ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanic
membrane with the internal ear.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) The upright pillar in the axis of most univalve shells.
(b) The central pillar or axis of the calicles of certain corals.

COLUMELLIFORM
Col`u*mel"li*form, a. Etym: [Columella + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a little column, or columella.

COLUMN
Col"umn, n. Etym: [L. columna, fr. columen, culmen, fr. cellere (used
only in comp.), akin to E. excel, and prob. to holm. See Holm, and
cf. Colonel.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a
roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually
composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.

2. Anything resembling, in form or position, a column an
architecture; an upright body or mass; a shaft or obelisk; as, a
column of air, of water, of mercury, etc. ; the Column Vendôme; the
spinal column.

3. (Mil.)
(a) A body of troops formed in ranks, one behind the other; --
contradistinguished from line. Compare Ploy, and Deploy.
(b) A small army.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A number of ships so arranged as to follow one another in
single or double file or in squadrons; -- in distinction from "line",
where they are side by side.

5. (Print.)

Defn: A perpendicular set of lines, not extending across the page,
and separated from other matter by a rule or blank space; as, a
column in a newspaper.

6. (Arith.)

Defn: A perpendicular line of figures.

7. (Bot.)

Defn: The body formed by the union of the stamens in the Mallow
family, or of the stamens and pistil in the orchids. Attached column.
See under Attach, v. t.
 -- Clustered column. See under Cluster, v. t.
 -- Column rule, a thin strip of brass separating columns of type in
the form, and making a line between them in printing.

COLUMNAR
Co*lum"*nar, a. Etym: [L. columnaris, fr. columna.]

Defn: Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; like
the shaft of a column. Columnar epithelium (Anat.), epithelium in
which the cells are priismatic in form, and set upright on the
surface they cover.
 -- Columnar structure (Geol.), a structure consisting of more or
less regular columns, usually six-sided, but sometimes with eight or
more sides. The columns are often fractured transversely, with a cup
joint, showing a concave surface above. This structure is
characteristic of certain igneous rocks, as basalt, and is due to
contraction in cooling.

COLUMNARITY
Col`um*nar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being columnar.

COLUMNATED
Co*lum"na*ted, a.

Defn: Having columns; as, columnated temples.

COLUMNED
Col"umned, a.

Defn: Having columns.
Troas and Ilion's columned citadel. Tennyson.

COLUMNIATION
Co*lum`ni*a"tion, n.

Defn: The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure. Gwilt.

COLURE
Co*lure", n.; pl. Colures. Etym: [F. colure, L. coluri, pl., fr. Gr.
(Astron. & Geog.)

Defn: One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the
poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial
points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other
intersects the equator at the distance of 90º from the former, and is
called the solstitial colure.
Thrice the equinoctial line He circled; four times crossed the car of
night From pole to pole, traversing each colure. Milton.

COLY
Co"ly, n.; pl. Colies. Etym: [NL. colius, prob. fr. Gr.

Defn: Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit
Africa.

COLZA
Col"za, n. Etym: [F., fr. D. koolzaad, prob., cabbage seed; kool
(akin to E. cole) + zaad akin to E. seed.] (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its
seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating
purposes; summer rape.

COM-
Com-.

Defn: A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with,
together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com-
before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col-
before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h,
l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w,
and sometimes before other consonants.

COMA
Co"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cemetery.]

Defn: A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or
impossible to rouse a person. See Carus.

COMA
Co"ma, n. Etym: [L., hair, fr. Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds
the nucleus or body of a comet.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A tuft or bunch, -- as the assemblage of branches forming the
head of a tree; or a cluster of brachts when empty and terminating
the inflorescence of a plant; or a tuft of long hairs on certain
seeds. Coma Berenices ( Etym: [L.] (Astron.), a small constellation
north of Virgo; -- called also Berenice's Hair.

COMANCHES
Co*man"ches ( or ), n. pl.; sing. Comanche ( or ) . (Ethnol.)

Defn: A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of
Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United
States; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering and
cruelty.

COMART
Co"mart`, n.

Defn: A covenant. [Obs.] Shak.

COMATE
Co"mate, a. Etym: [L. comatus, fr. comare to clothe with hair, fr.
coma hair.]

Defn: Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.

CO-MATE
Co"-mate`, n. Etym: [Pref. co- + mate.]

Defn: A companion. Shak.

COMATOSE
Co"ma*tose` ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [From Coma lethargy.]

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as,
comatose sleep; comatose fever.

COMATOUS
Co"ma*tous, a.

Defn: Comatose.

COMATULA
Co*mat"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. comatulus having hair neatly
curled, dim. fr. coma hair.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When young
they are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and cling
to seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also feather
stars.

COMATULID
Co*mat"u*lid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.

COMB
Comb (; 110), n. Etym: [AS.. camb; akin to Sw., Dan., & D. kam, Icel.
kambr, G. kamm, Gr. jambha tooth.]

1. An instrument with teeth, for straightening, cleansing, and
adjusting the hair, or for keeping it in place.

2. An instrument for currying hairy animals, or cleansing and
smoothing their coats; a currycomb.

3. (Manuf. & Mech.)
(a) A toothed instrument used for separating and cleansing wool,
flax, hair, etc.
(b) The serrated vibratory doffing knife of a carding machine.
(c) A former, commonly cone-shaped, used in hat manufacturing for
hardening the soft fiber into a bat.
(d) A tool with teeth, used for chasing screws on work in a lathe; a
chaser.
(e) The notched scale of a wire micrometer.
(f) The collector of an electrical machine, usually resembling a
comb.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) The naked fleshy crest or caruncle on the upper part of the bill
or hood of a cock or other bird. It is usually red.
(b) One of a pair of peculiar organs on the base of the abdomen of
scorpions.

5. The curling crest of a wave.

6. The waxen framework forming the walls of the cells in which bees
store their honey, eggs, etc.; honeycomb. "A comb of honey." Wyclif.
When the bee doth leave her comb. Shak.

7. The thumbpiece of the hammer of a gunlock, by which it may be
cocked.

COMB
Comb, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Combed; p. pr. & vb. n. Combing.]

Defn: To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smooth
and straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. See
under Combing.
Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright. Shak.

COMB
Comb, v. i. Etym: [See Comb, n., 5.] (Naut.)

Defn: To roll over, as the top or crest of a wave; to break with a
white foam, as waves.

COMB; COMBE
Comb, Combe ( or ), n. Etym: [AS. comb, prob. of Celtic origin; cf.
W. cwm a dale, valley.]

Defn: That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation
beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it.
[Written also coombe.] Buckland.
A gradual rise the shelving combe Displayed. Southey.

COMB
Comb, n.

Defn: A dry measure. See Coomb.

COMBAT
Com"bat ( or ; 277), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Combated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Combating.] Etym: [F. combattre; pref. com- + battre to beat, fr. L.
battuere to strike. See Batter.]

Defn: To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.
To combat with a blind man I disdain. Milton.
After the fall of the republic, the Romans combated only for the
choice of masters. Gibbon.

COMBAT
Com"bat, v. t.

Defn: To fight with; to oppose by force, argument, etc.; to contend
against; to resist.
When he the ambitious Norway combated. Shak.
And combated in silence all these reasons. Milton.
Minds combat minds, repelling and repelled. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To fight against; resist; oppose; withstand; oppugn; antagonize;
repel; resent.

COMBAT
Com"bat, n. Etym: [Cf. F. combat.]

1. A fight; a contest of violence; a struggle for supremacy.
My courage try by combat, if thou dar'st. Shak.
The noble combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in Paulina.
Shak.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: An engagement of no great magnitude; or one in which the
parties engaged are not armies. Single combat, one in which a single
combatant meets a single opponent, as in the case of David and
Goliath; also a duel.

Syn.
 -- A battle; engagement; conflict; contest; contention; struggle;
fight, strife. See Battle, Contest.

COMBATABLE
Com"bat*a*ble ( or ), a. Etym: [Cf. F. combattable.]

Defn: Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatable
foes, evils, or arguments.

COMBATANT
Com"bat*ant, a. Etym: [F. combattant, p. pr.]

Defn: Contending; disposed to contend. B. Jonson.

COMBATANT
Com"bat*ant, n. Etym: [F. combattant.]

Defn: One who engages in combat. "The mighty combatants." Milton.
A controversy which long survived the original combatants. Macaulay

COMBATER
Com"bat*er, n.

Defn: One who combats. Sherwood.

COMBATIVE
Com"bat*ive or

Defn: (

COMBATIVENESS
Com"bat*ive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being combative; propensity to contend or to
quarrel.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: A cranial development supposed to indicate a combative
disposition.

COMBATTANT
Com`bat`tant", a. Etym: [F.] (Her.)

Defn: In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face to
face, each rampant.

COMBBROACH
Comb"broach`, n.

Defn: A tooth of a wool comb. [Written also combrouch.]

COMBE
Combe ( or ), n.

Defn: See Comb.

COMBER
Comb"er, n.

1. One who combs; one whose occupation it is to comb wool, flax, etc.
Also, a machine for combing wool, flax, etc.

2. A long, curling wave.

COMBER
Com"ber, v. t.

Defn: To cumber. [Obs.] Spenser.

COMBER
Com"ber, n.

Defn: Encumbrance. [Obs.]

COMBER
Com"ber, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cabrilla. Also, a name applied to a species of wrasse.
[Prov. Eng.]

COMBINABLE
Com*bin"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. combinable.]

Defn: Capable of combinding; consistent with. [R.] M. Arnold.
 -- Com*bin"a*ble*ness, n.

COMBINATE
Com"bi*nate, a. Etym: [LL. combinatus, p. p.]

Defn: United; joined; betrothed. [R.]

COMBINATION
Com`bi*na"tion, n. Etym: [LL. combinatio. See Combine.]

1. The act or process of combining or uniting persons and things.
Making new compounds by new combinations. Boyle.
A solemn combination shall be made Of our dear souls. Shak.

2. The result of combining or uniting; union of persons or things;
esp. a union or alliance of persons or states to effect some purpose;
-- usually in a bad sense.
A combination of the most powerful men in Rome who had conspired my
ruin. Melmoth.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by which
substances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight to
form distinct compounds.

4. pl. (Math.)

Defn: The different arrangements of a number of objects, as letters,
into groups.

Note: In combinations no regard is paid to the order in which the
objects are arranged in each group, while in variations and
permutations this order is respected. Brande & C. Combination car, a
railroad car containing two or more compartments used for different
purposes. [U. S.] -- Combination lock, a lock in which the mechanism
is controlled by means of a movable dial (sometimes by several dials
or rings) inscribed with letters or other characters. The bolt of the
lock can not be operated until after the dial has been so turned as
to combine the characters in a certain order or succession.
 -- Combination room, in the University of Cambridge, Eng., a room
into which the fellows withdraw after dinner, for wine, dessert, and
conversation.
 -- Combination by volume (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio by
which gaseous elements and compounds unite in definite proportions by
volume to form distinct compounds.
 -- Combination by weight (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio, in
which substances unite in proportions by weight, relatively fixed and
exact, to form distinct compounds. See Law of definite proportions,
under Definite.

Syn.
 -- Cabal; alliance; association; league; union; confederacy;
coalition; conspiracy. See Cabal.

COMBINE
Com*bine", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Combined; p. pr. & vb. n. Combining.]
Etym: [LL. combinare, combinatum; L. com- + binus, pl. bini, two and
two, double: cf. F. combiner. See Binary.]

1. To unite or join; to link closely together; to bring into
harmonious union; to cause or unite so as to form a homogeneous, as
by chemical union.
So fitly them in pairs thou hast combined. Milton.
Friendship is the which really combines mankind. Dr. H. More.
And all combined, save what thou must combine By holy marriage. Shak.
Earthly sounds, though sweet and well combined. Cowper.

2. To bind; to hold by a moral tie. [Obs.]
I am combined by a sacred vow. Shak.

COMBINE
Com*bine", v. i.

1. To form a union; to agree; to coalesce; to confederate.
You with your foes combine, And seem your own destruction to design
Dryden.
So sweet did harp and voice combine. Sir W. Scott.

2. To unite by affinity or natural attraction; as, two substances,
which will not combine of themselves, may be made to combine by the
intervention of a third.

3. (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two or
more cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the card
played. Combining weight (Chem.), that proportional weight, usually
referred to hydrogen as a standard, and for each element fixed and
exact, by which an element unites with another to form a distinct
compound. The combining weights either are identical with, or are
multiples or multiples of, the atomic weight. See Atomic weight,
under Atomic, a.

COMBINED
Com*bined", a.

Defn: United closely; confederated; chemically united.

COMBINEDLY
Com*bin"ed*ly, adv. In combination or coöperation

Defn: ; jointly.

COMBINER
Com*bin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, combines.

COMBING
Comb"ing, n.

1. The act or process of using a comb or a number of combs; as, the
combing of one's hair; the combing of wool.

Note: The process of combing is used in straightening wool of long
staple; short wool is carded.

2. pl.
(a) That which is caught or collected with a comb, as loose, tangled
hair.
(b) Hair arranged to be worn on the head.
The baldness, thinness, and . . . deformity of their hair is supplied
by borders and combings. Jer. Taylor.
(c) (Naut.)

Defn: See Coamings. Combing machine (Textile Manuf.), a machine for
combing wool, flax, cotton, etc., and separating the longer and more
valuable fiber from the shorter. See also Carding machine, under
Carding.

COMBLESS
Comb"less, a.

Defn: Without a comb or crest; as, a combless ceck.

COMBOLOIO
Com`bo*lo"io, n.

Defn: A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads. Byron.

COMB-SHAPED
Comb"-shaped`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pectinate.

COMBUST
Com*bust", a. Etym: [L. combustus, p. p. of comburere to burn up;
com- + burere (only in comp.), of uncertian origin; cf. bustum
fineral pyre, prurire to itch, pruna a live coal, Gr. plush to burn.]

1. Burnt; consumed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, as
the moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half from
the sun. [Obs.]
Planets that are oft combust. Milton.

COMBUSTIBILITY
Com*bus`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being combustible.

COMBUSTIBLE
Com*bus"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. combustble.]

1. Capable of taking fire and burning; apt to catch fire;
inflammable.
Sin is to the soul like fire to combustible matter. South.

2. Ea
Arnold was a combustible character. W. Irving.

COMBUSTIBLE
Com*bus"ti*ble, n.

Defn: A substance that may bee set on fire, or which is liable to
take fire and burn.
All such combustibles as are cheap enough for common use go under the
name of fuel. Ure.

COMBUSTIBLENESS
Com*bus"ti*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Combustibility.

COMBUSTION
Com*bus"tion, n. Etym: [L. combustio: cf. F. combustion.]

1. The state of burning.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The combination of a combustible with a supporter of
combustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.
Combustion results is common cases from the mutual chemical action
and reaction of the combustible and the oxygen of the atmosphere,
whereby a new compound is formed. Ure.
Supporter of combustion (Chem.), a gas as oxygen, the combination of
which with a combustible, as coal, constitutes combustion.

3. Violent agitation; confusion; tumult. [Obs.]
There [were] great combustions and divisions among the heads of the
university. Mede.
But say from whence this new combustion springs. Dryden.

COMBUSTION CHAMBER
Com*bus"tion cham`ber. (Mech.)
 (a) A space over, or in front of , a boiler furnace where the gases
from the fire become more thoroughly mixed and burnt. (b) The
clearance space in the cylinder of an internal combustion engine
where the charge is compressed and ignited.

COMBUSTIOUS
Com*bus"tious, a.

Defn: Inflammable. [Obs.] Shak.

COME
Come, v. i. [imp. Came; p. p. Come; p. pr & vb. n. Coming.] Etym:
[OE. cumen, comen, AS. cuman; akin to OS.kuman, D. komen, OHG.
queman, G. kommen, Icel. koma, Sw. komma, Dan. komme, Goth. giman, L.
venire (gvenire), Gr. gam. *23. Cf. Base, n., Convene, Adventure.]

1. To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some
place or person indicated; -- opposed to go.
Look, who comes yonder Shak.
I did not come to curse thee. Tennyson.

2. To complete a movement toward a place; to arrive.
When we came to Rome. Acts xxviii. 16.
Lately come from Italy. Acts vviii. 2.

3. To approach or arrive, as if by a journey or form a distance. "Thy
kingdom come." Matt. vi. 10.
The hour is comming, and now is. John. v. 25.
So quik bright things come to confusion. Shak.

4. To approach or arrive, as the result of a cause, or of the act of
another.
From whence come wars James iv. 1.
Both riches and honor come of thee! Chron. xxix. 12.

5. To arrive in sight; to be manifest; to appear.
Then butter does refuse to come. Hudibras.

6. To get to be, as the result of change or progress; -- with a
predicate; as, to come united.
How come you thus estranged Shak.
How come her eyes so bright Shak.

Note: Am come, is come, etc., are frequently used instead of have
come, has come, etc., esp. in poetry. The verb to be gives adjectival
significance to the participle as expressing a state or condition of
the subject, while the auxiliary have expresses simply the completion
of the action signified by the verb.
Think not that I am come to destroy. Matt. v. 17.
We are come off like Romans. Shak.
The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year. Bryant.

Note: Come may properly be used (instead of go) in speaking of a
movement hence, or away, when there is reference to an approach to
the person addressed; as, I shall come home next week; he will come
to your house to-day. It is used with other verbs almost as an
auxiliary, indicative of approach to the action or state expressed by
the verb; as, how came you to do it Come is used colloquially, with
reference to a definite future time approaching, without an
auxilliary; as, it will be two years, come next Christmas; i. e.,
when Christmas shall come.
They were cried In meeting, come next Sunday. Lowell.
Come, in the imperative, is used to excite attention, or to invite to
motion or joint action; come, let us go. "This is the heir; come, let
us kill him." Matt. xxi. 38. When repeated, it sometimes expresses
haste, or impatience, and sometimes rebuke. "Come, come, no time for
lamentation now." Milton. To come, yet to arrive, future. "In times
to come." Dryden. "There's pippins and cheese to come." Shak.
 -- To come about. (a) To come to pass; to arrive; to happen; to
result; as, how did these things come about (b) To change; to come
round; as, the ship comes about. "The wind is come about." Shak.
On better thoughts, and my urged reasons, They are come about, and
won to the true side. B. Jonson.
-- To come abroad. (a) To move or be away from one's home or country.
"Am come abroad to see the world." Shak. (b) To become public or
known. [Obs.] "Neither was anything kept secret, but that it should
come abroad." Mark. iv. 22.
 -- To come across, to meet; to find, esp. by chance or suddenly. "We
come across more than one incidental mention of those wars." E. A.
Freeman. "Wagner's was certainly one of the strongest and most
independent natures I ever came across." H. R. Heweis.
 -- To come after. (a) To follow. (b) To come to take or to obtain;
as, to come after a book.
 -- To come again, to return. "His spirit came again and he revived."
Judges. xv. 19.
 -- To come and go. (a) To appear and disappear; to change; to
alternate. "The color of the king doth come and go." Shak. (b)
(Mech.) To play backward and forward.
 -- To come at. (a) To reach; to arrive within reach of; to gain; as,
to come at a true knowledge of ourselves. (b) To come toward; to
attack; as, he came at me with fury.
 -- To come away, to part or depart.
 -- To come between, to interverne; to separate; hence, to cause
estrangement.
 -- To come by. (a) To obtain, gain, acquire. "Examine how you came
by all your state." Dryden. (b) To pass near or by way of.
 -- To come down. (a) To descend. (b) To be humbled.
 -- To come down upon, to call to account, to reprimand. [Colloq.]
Dickens.
 -- To come home. (a) To retuen to one's house or family. (b) To come
close; to press closely; to touch the feelings, interest, or reason.
(b) (Naut.) To be loosened from the ground; -- said of an anchor.
 -- To come in. (a) To enter, as a town, house, etc. "The thief
cometh in." Hos. vii. 1. (b) To arrive; as, when my ship comes in.
(c) To assume official station or duties; as, when Lincoln came in.
(d) To comply; to yield; to surrender. "We need not fear his coming
in" Massinger. (e) To be brought into use. "Silken garments did not
come in till late." Arbuthnot. (f) To be added or inserted; to be or
become a part of. (g) To accrue as gain from any business or
investment. (h) To mature and yield a harvest; as, the crops come in
well. (i) To have sexual intercourse; -- with to or unto. Gen.
xxxviii. 16. (j) To have young; to bring forth; as, the cow will come
in next May. [U. S.] -- To come in for, to claim or receive. "The
rest came in for subsidies." Swift.
 -- To come into, to join with; to take part in; to agree to; to
comply with; as, to come into a party or scheme.
 -- To come it ever, to hoodwink; to get the advantage of. [Colloq.]
-- To come near or nigh, to approach in place or quality to be equal
to. "Nothing ancient or modern seems to come near it." Sir W. Temple.
 -- To come of. (a) To descend or spring from. "Of Priam's royal race
my mother came." Dryden. (b) To result or follow from. "This comes of
judging by the eye." L'Estrange.
 -- To come off. (a) To depart or pass off from. (b) To get free; to
get away; to escape. (c) To be carried through; to pass off; as, it
came off well. (d) To acquit one's self; to issue from (a contest,
etc.); as, he came off with honor; hence, substantively, a come off,
an escape; an excuse; an evasion. [Colloq.] (e) To pay over; to give.
[Obs.] (f) To take place; to happen; as, when does the race come off
(g) To be or become after some delay; as, the weather came off very
fine. (h) To slip off or be taken off, as a garment; to separate. (i)
To hurry away; to get through. Chaucer.
 -- To come off by, to suffer. [Obs.] "To come off by the worst."
Calamy.
 -- To come off from, to leave. "To come off from these grave
disquisitions." Felton.
 -- To come on. (a) To advance; to make progress; to thrive. (b) To
move forward; to approach; to supervene.
 -- To come out. (a) To pass out or depart, as from a country, room,
company, etc. "They shall come out with great substance." Gen. xv.
14. (b) To become public; to appear; to be published. "It is indeed
come out at last." Bp. Stillingfleet. (c) To end; to result; to turn
out; as, how will this affair come out he has come out well at last.
(d) To be introduced into society; as, she came out two seasons ago.
(e) To appear; to show itself; as, the sun came out. (f) To take
sides; to take a stand; as, he came out against the tariff.(g) To
publicly admit oneself to be homosexual.
 -- To come out with, to give publicity to; to disclose.
 -- To come over. (a) To pass from one side or place to another.
"Perpetually teasing their friends to come over to them." Addison.
(b) To rise and pass over, in distillation.
 -- To come over to, to join.
 -- To come round. (a) To recur in regular course. (b) To recover.
[Colloq.] (c) To change, as the wind. (d) To relent. J. H. Newman.
(e) To circumvent; to wheedle. [Colloq.] -- To come short, to be
deficient; to fail of attaining. "All have sinned and come short of
the glory of God." Rom. iii. 23.
 -- To come to. (a) To consent or yield. Swift. (b) (Naut.) (with the
accent on to) To luff; to brin the ship's head nearer the wind; to
anchor. (c) (with the accent on to) To recover, as from a swoon. (d)
To arrive at; to reach. (e) To amount to; as, the taxes come to a
large sum. (f) To fall to; to be received by, as an inheritance.
Shak.
 -- To come to blows. See under Blow.
 -- To come to grief. See under Grief.
 -- To come to a head. (a) To suppurate, as a boil. (b) To mature; to
culminate; as a plot.
 -- To come to one's self, to recover one's senses.
 -- To come to pass, to happen; to fall out.
 -- To come to the scratch. (a) (Prize Fighting) To step up to the
scratch or mark made in the ring to be toed by the combatants in
beginning a contest; hence: (b) To meet an antagonist or a difficulty
bravely. [Colloq.] -- To come to time. (a) (Prize Fighting) To come
forward in order to resume the contest when the interval allowed for
rest is over and "time" is called; hence: (b) To keep an appointment;
to meet expectations. [Colloq.] -- To come together. (a) To meet for
business, worship, etc.; to assemble. Acts i. 6. (b) To live together
as man and wife. Matt. i. 18.
 -- To come true, to happen as predicated or expected.
 -- To come under, to belong to, as an individual to a class.
 -- To come up (a) to ascend; to rise. (b) To be brought up; to
arise, as a question. (c) To spring; to shoot or rise above the
earth, as a plant. (d) To come into use, as a fashion.
 -- To come up the capstan (Naut.), to turn it the contrary way, so
as to slacken the rope about it.
 -- To come up the tackle fall (Naut.), to slacken the tackle gently.
Totten.
 -- To come up to, to rise to; to equal.
 -- To come up with, to overtake or reach by pursuit.
 -- To come upon. (a) To befall. (b) To attack or invade. (c) To have
a claim upon; to become dependent upon for support; as, to come upon
the town. (d) To light or chance upon; to find; as, to come upon hid
treasure.

COME
Come, v. t.

Defn: To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any tricks
here. [Slang] To come it, to succeed in a trick of any sort. [Slang]

COME
Come, n.

Defn: Coming. Chaucer.

COME-ALONG
Come"-a*long`, n.

Defn: A gripping device, as for stretching wire, etc., consisting of
two jaws so attached to a ring that they are closed by pulling on the
ring.

CO-MEDDLE
Co-med"dle, v. t.

Defn: To mix; to mingle, to temper. [Obs.] Shak.

COMEDIAN
Co*me"di*an, n. Etym: [Cf. F. comédien.]

1. An actor or player in comedy. "The famous comedian, Roscius."
Middleton.

2. A writer of comedy. Milton.

COMEDIENNE
Co*mé`di*enne", n. Etym: [F., fem. of com.]

Defn: A women who plays in comedy.

COMEDIETTA
Co*me`di*et"ta, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.

COMEDO
Com"e*do, n.; pl. Comedones. Etym: [L., a glutton. See Comestible.]
(Med.)

Defn: A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which
on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained
oily secretion, with a black head (dirt).

COMEDOWN
Come"down`, n.

Defn: A downfall; an humillation. [Colloq.]

COMEDY
Com"e*dy, n.; pl. Comedies. Etym: [F. comédie, L. comoedia, fr. Gr.
home) + Home, and Ode.]

Defn: A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and
amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners
of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in
which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; --
opposed to tragedy.
With all the vivacity if comedy. Macaulay.
Are come to play a pleasant comedy. Shak.

COMELILY
Come"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a suitable or becoming manner. [R.] Sherwood.

COMELINESS
Come"li*ness, n. Etym: [See Comely.]

Defn: The quality or state of being comely.
Comeliness is a disposing fair Of things and actions in fit time and
place. Sir J. Davies.
Strength, comeliness of shape, or amplest merit. Milton.
Comeliness signifies something less forcible than beauty, less
elegant than grace, and less light than prettiness. Johnson.

COMELY
Come"ly, a. [Compar. Comelier; superl. Comeliest.] Etym: [OE.
comeliche, AS. cymlic; cyme suitable (fr. cuman to come, become) +
lic like.]

1. Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good-
looking; handsome.
He that is comely when old and decrepit, surely was very beautiful
when he was young. South.
Not once perceive their foul disfigurement But boast themselves more
comely than before. Milton.

2. Suitable or becoming; proper; agreeable.
This is a happier and more comely time Than when these fellows ran
about the streets, Crying confusion. Shak.
It is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and
praise is comely. Ps. cxlvii. 1.

COMELY
Come"ly, adv.

Defn: In a becoming manner. Ascham.

COME-OUTER
Come-out"er, n.

Defn: One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or other
organization; a radical reformer. [Colloq. U. S.]

COMER
Com"er, n.

Defn: One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is
present. All comers, all who come, or offer, to take part in a
matter, especially in a contest or controversy. "To prove it against
all comers." Bp. Stillingfleet.

COMES
Co"mes, n. Etym: [L., a companion.] (Mus.)

Defn: The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.

COMESSATION
Com`es*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. comissatio, comessatio.]

Defn: A reveling; a rioting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

COMESTIBLE
Co*mes"ti*ble, a. Etym: [F. comestible, fr. L. comesus, comestus, p.
p. pf comedere to eat; com- + edere to eat.]

Defn: Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.
Some herbs are most comestible. Sir T. Elyot.

COMESTIBLE
Co*mes"ti*ble, n.

Defn: Something suitable to be eaten; -- commonly in the plural.
Thackeray.

COMET
Com"et, n. Etym: [L. cometes, cometa, from Gr. coma: cf. F. comète.]
(Astron.)

Defn: A member of the solar system which usually moves in an
elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion,
and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A
comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or
coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently
wanting. See Illustration in Appendix.

COMETARIUM
Com`e*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a comet
round the sun. Hutton.

COMETARY
Com"et*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cométaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet. Cheyne.

COMET-FINDER; COMET-SEEKER
Com"et-find`er, or Com"et-seek`er, n. (Astron.)

Defn: A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used
for finding comets.

COMETHER
Co*meth"er, n. [Prob. dial. pron. of come hither, used in calling
cows, etc.] [Dial. or Colloq., Brit.]

1.

Defn: Matter; affair.

2.  Friendly communication or association.

To put the, or one's, comether on, to exercise persuasion upon; to
get under one's influence; to beguile; to wheedle.

How does ut come about, sorr, that whin a man has put the comether on
wan woman he's sure bound to put ut on another
Kipling.

COMETIC
Co*met"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to a comet.

COMETOGRAPHER
Com`et*og"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who describes or writes about comets.

COMETOGRAPHY
Com`et*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Comet + -graphy: cf. F. cométographie.]

Defn: A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.

COMETOLOGY
Com`et*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Comet + -logy.]

Defn: The department of astronomy relating to comets.

COMFIT
Com"fit, n. Etym: [F. confit, prop. a p. p., fr. confire to preserve,
pickle, fr. L. conficere to prepare; con- + facere to make. See Fact,
and cf. Confect.]

Defn: A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved
with sugar and dried; a confection.

COMFIT
Com"fit, v. t.

Defn: To preserve dry with sugar.
The fruit which does so quickly waste, . . . Thou comfitest in sweets
to make it last. Cowley.

COMFITURE
Com"fi*ture, n. Etym: [F. confiture; cf. LL. confecturae sweetmeats,
confectura a preparing. See Comfit, and cf. Confiture.]

Defn: See Comfit, n.

COMFORT
Com"fort, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comforted; p. pr. & vb. n. Comforting.]
Etym: [F. conforter, fr. L. confortare to strengthen much; con- +
fortis strong. See Fort.]

1. To make strong; to invigorate; to fortify; to corroborate. [Obs.]
Wyclif.
God's own testimony . . . doth not a little comfort and confirm the
same. Hooker.

2. To assist or help; to aid. [Obs.]
I . . . can not help the noble chevalier: God comfort him in this
necessity! Shak.

3. To impart strength and hope to; to encourage; to relieve; to
console; to cheer,
Light excelleth in comforting the spirits of men. Bacon.
That we may be adle to comfort them that are in any affliction. 2
Cor. i. 4. (Rev. Ver. ).
A perfect woman, nobly planned, To warn, to comfort, and command.
Wordsworth.

Syn.
 -- To cheer; solace; console; revive; encourage; enliven;
invigorate; inspirit, gladden; recreate; exhilarate; refresh;
animate; confirm; strengthen.
 -- To Comfort, Console, Solace. These verbs all suppose some
antecedent state of suffering or sorrow. Console in confined to the
act giving sympathetic relief to the mind under affliction or sorrow,
and points to some definite source of that relief; as, the presence
of his friend consoled him; he was much consoled by this
intelligence. The act of consoling commonly implies the inculcation
of resignation. Comfort points to relief afforded by the
communication of positive pleasure, hope, and strength, as well as by
the diminution of pain; as, "They brought the young man alive, and
were not a little comforted." Acts xx. 12.

Note: Solace is from L. solacium, which means according to Dumesnil,
consolation inwardly felt or applied to the case of the sufferer.
Hence, the verb to solace denotes the using of things for the purpose
of affording relief under sorrow or suffering; as, to solace one's
self with reflections, with books, or with active employments.

COMFORT
Com"fort, n. Etym: [OF. confort, fr. conforter.]

1. Assistance; relief; support. [Obs. except in the phrase "aid and
comfort." See 5 below.] Shak.

2. Encouragement; solace; consolation in trouble; also, that which
affords consolation.
In comfort of her mother's fears. Shak.
Cheer thy spirit with this comfort. Shak.
Speaking words of endearment where words of comfort availed not.
Longfellow.

3. A state of quiet enjoyment; freedom from pain, want, or anxiety;
also, whatever contributes to such a condition.
I had much joy and comfort in thy love. Phil. 7 (Rev. Ver. ).
He had the means of living in comfort. Macaulay.

4. A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable. [U. S.]

5. (Law)

Defn: Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to give
aid and comfort to the enemy.

Syn.
 -- Comfort, Consolation. Comfort has two meanings:

1. Strength and relief received under affliction;

2. Positive enjoyment, of a quiet, permanent nature, together with
the sources thereof; as, the comfort of love; surrounded with
comforts; but it is with the former only that the word consolation is
brought into comparison. As thus compared, consolation points to some
specific source of relief for the afflicted mind; as, the
consolations of religion. Comfort supposes the relief to be afforded
by imparting positive enjoyment, as well as a diminution of pain.
"Consolation, or comfort, signifies some alleviation to that pain to
which it is not in our power to afford the proper and adequate
remedy; they imply rather an augmentation of the power of bearing,
than a diminution of the burden." Johnson.

CONDIGNNESS
Con*dign"ness, n.

Defn: Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness.

CONDIMENT
Con"di*ment, n. Etym: [L. condimentum, fr. condire. See Condite.]

Defn: Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify the
taste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard;
seasoning.
As for radish and the like, they are for condiments, and not for
nourishment. Bacon.

CONDISCIPLE
Con`dis*ci"ple, n. Etym: [L. condiscipulus. See Disciple.]

Defn: A schoolfellow; a fellow-student. [R.]

CONDITE
Con"dite, a. Etym: [L. conditus, p. p. of condire to preserve,
pickle, season. See Recondite.]

Defn: Preserved; pickled. [Obs.] Burton.

CONDITE
Con*dite", v. t.

Defn: To pickle; to preserve; as, to condite pears, quinces, etc.
[Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

CONDITION
Con*di"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. conditio (better condicio)
agreement, compact, condition; con- + a root signifying to show,
point out, akin to dicere to say, dicare to proclaim, dedicate. See
Teach, Token.]

1. Mode or state of being; state or situation with regard to external
circumstances or influences, or to physical or mental integrity,
health, strength, etc.; predicament; rank; position, estate.
I am in my condition A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king. Shak.
And O, what man's condition can be worse Than his whom plenty starves
and blessings curse Cowley.
The new conditions of life. Darwin.

2. Essential quality; property; attribute.
It seemed to us a condition and property of divine powers and beings
to be hidden and unseen to others. Bacon.

3. Temperament; disposition; character. [Obs.]
The condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil. Shak.

4. That which must exist as the occasion or concomitant of something
else; that which is requisite in order that something else should
take effect; an essential qualification; stipulation; terms
specified.
I had as lief take her dowry with this condition, to be whipped at
the high cross every morning. Shak.
Many are apt to believe remission of sins, but they believe it
without the condition of repentance. Jer. Taylor.

5. (Law)

Defn: A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its object
to suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principal
obligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify a
devise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event,
which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrence
of which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of an
obligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend. Blount.
Tomlins. Bouvier. Wharton. Equation of condition. (Math.) See under
Equation.
 -- On or Upon condition (that), used for if in introducing
conditional sentences. "Upon condition thou wilt swear to pay him
tribute . . . thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him." Shak.
 -- Conditions of sale, the terms on which it is proposed to sell
property by auction; also, the instrument containing or expressing
these terms.

Syn.
 -- State; situation; circumstances; station; case; mode; plight;
predicament; stipulation; qualification; requisite; article;
provision; arrangement. See State.

CONDITION
Con*di"tion, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Conditioned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conditioning.]

1. To make terms; to stipulate.
Pay me back my credit, And I'll condition with ye. Beau. & Fl.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: To impose upon an object those relations or conditions without
which knowledge and thought are alleged to be impossible.
To think of a thing is to condition. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONDITION
Con*di"tion, v. t. Etym: [Cf. LL. conditionare. See Condition, n.]

1. To invest with, or limit by, conditions; to burden or qualify by a
condition; to impose or be imposed as the condition of.
Seas, that daily gain upon the shore, Have ebb and flow conditioning
their march. Tennyson.

2. To contract; to stipulate; to agree.
It was conditioned between Saturn and Titan, that Saturn should put
to death all his male children. Sir W. Raleigh.

3. (U. S. Colleges)

Defn: To put under conditions; to require to pass a new examination
or to make up a specified study, as a condition of remaining in one's
class or in college; as, to condition a student who has failed in
some branch of study.

4. To test or assay, as silk (to ascertain the proportion of moisture
it contains). McElrath.

Defn: train; acclimate.

CONDITIONAL
Con*di"tion*al, a. Etym: [L. conditionalis.]

1. Containing, implying, or depending on, a condition or conditions;
not absolute; made or granted on certain terms; as, a conditional
promise.
Every covenant of God with man . . . may justly be made (as in fact
it is made) with this conditional punishment annexed and declared.
Bp. Warburton.

2. (Gram. & Logic)

Defn: Expressing a condition or supposition; as, a conditional word,
mode, or tense.
A conditional proposition is one which asserts the dependence of one
categorical proposition on another. Whately.
The words hypothetical and conditional may be . . . used
synonymously. J. S. Mill.

CONDITIONAL
Con*di"tion*al, n.

1. A limitation. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. A conditional word, mode, or proposition.
Disjunctives may be turned into conditionals. L. H. Atwater.

CONDITIONALITY
Con*di`tion*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation by
certain terms.

CONDITIONALLY
Con*di"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions;
not absolutely or positively. Shak.

CONDITIONATE
Con*di"tion*ate, a. Etym: [LL. conditionatus, p. p. See Condition, v.
t.]

Defn: Conditional. [Obs.]
Barak's answer is faithful, though conditionate. Bp. Hall.

CONDITIONATE
Con*di"tion*ate, v. t.

1. To qualify by conditions; to regulate. [Obs.]

2. To put under conditions; to render conditional.

CONDITIONED
Con*di"tioned, a.

1. Surrounded; circumstanced; in a certain state or condition, as of
property or health; as, a well conditioned man.
The best conditioned and unwearied spirit. Shak.

2. Having, or known under or by, conditions or relations; not
independent; not absolute.
Under these, thought is possible only in the conditioned interval.
Sir W. Hamilton.

CONDITIONLY
Con*di"tion*ly, adv.

Defn: Conditionally. [Obs.]

CONDITORY
Con"di*to*ry, n.; pl. Conditories. Etym: [L. conditorium, fr. condere
to hide. See Recondite.]

Defn: A repository for holding things; a hinding place.

CONDOG
Con*dog", v. i. Etym: [A punning corruption of concur.]

Defn: To concur; to agree. [Burlesque]

Note: This word appears in early dictionaries as a synonym for the
word agree; thus. "Agree; concurre, cohere, condog, condescend."
Cockeram.

CONDOLATORY
Con*do"la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Expressing condolence. Smart.

CONDOLE
Con*dole", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Condoled; p. pr. & vb. n. Condoling.]
Etym: [L. condolere; con- + dolere to feel pain, grieve. See
Doleful.]

Defn: To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; --
followed by with.
Your friends would have cause to rejoice, rather than condole with
you. Sir W. Temple.

CONDOLE
Con*dole", v. t.

Defn: To lament or grieve over. [R.]
I come not, Samson, to condole thy chance. Milton.

CONDOLEMENT
Con*dole"ment, n.

1. Condolence. "A pitiful condolement." Milton.

2. Sorrow; mourning; lamentation. Shak.

CONDOLENCE
Con*do"lence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. condoléance.]

Defn: Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief.
Their congratulations and their condolences. Steele.
A special mission of condolence. Macaulay.

CONDOLER
Con*dol"er, n.

Defn: One who condoles.

CONDONATION
Con`do*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. condonatio a giving away.]

1. The act of condoning or pardoning.

2. (Law)

Defn: Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of his
wife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, as
adultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not be
repeated. Bouvier. Wharton.

CONDONE
Con*done", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Condoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Condoning.]
Etym: [L. condonare, -donatum, to give up, remit, forgive; con- +
donare to give. See Donate.]

1. To pardon; to forgive.
A fraud which he had either concocted or condoned. W. Black.
It would have been magnanimous in the men then in power to have
overlooked all these things, and, condoning the politics, to have
rewarded the poetry of Burns. J. C. Shairp.

2. (Law)

Defn: To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for a
violation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or the
wife.

CONDOR
Con"dor, n. Etym: [Sp. condor, fr. Peruvian cuntur.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus
gryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes.

CONDOTTIERE
Con`dot*tie"re, n.; pl. Condottieri. Etym: [It., captain.]

Defn: A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to any
party in any contest.

CONDUCE
Con*duce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Conduced; p. pr. & vb. n. Conducing.]
Etym: [L. conducere to bring together, conduce, hire; con- + ducere
to lead. See Duke and cf. Conduct, n., Cond.]

Defn: To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable or
desirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.
He was sensible how much such a union would conduce to the happiness
of both. Macaulay.
The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion of
distemper'd blood. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To contribute; aid; assist; tend; subserve.

CONDUCE
Con*duce", v. t.

Defn: To conduct; to lead; to guide. [Obs.]
He was sent to conduce hither the princess. Sir H. Wotton.

CONDUCENT
Con*du"cent, a. Etym: [L. conducens, p. pr.]

Defn: Conducive; tending.
Conducent to the good success of this business. Abp. Laud.

CONDUCIBILITY
Con*du"ci*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness. Bp.
Wilkins.

CONDUCIBLE
Con*du"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. conducibilis.]

Defn: Conducive; tending; contributing. Bacon.
All his laws are in themselves conducible to the temporal interest of
them that observe them. Bentley.

CONDUCIBLENESS
Con*du"ci*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being conducible.

CONDUCIBLY
Con*du"ci*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to promote. [R.]

CONDUCIVE
Con*du"cive, a.

Defn: Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.
However conducive to the good or our country. Addison.

CONDUCIVENESS
Con*du"cive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of conducing.

CONDUCT
Con"duct, n. Etym: [LL. conductus defense, escort, fr. L. conductus,
p. p. of conducere. See Conduce, and cf. Conduit.]

1. The act or method of conducting; guidance; management.
Christianity has humanized the conduct of war. Paley.
The conduct of the state, the administration of its affairs. Ld.
Brougham.

2. Skillful guidance or management; generalship.
Conduct of armies is a prince's art. Waller.
Attacked the Spaniards . . . with great impetuosity, but with so
little conduct, that his forces were totally routed. Robertson.

3. Convoy; escort; guard; guide. [Archaic]
I will be your conduct. B. Jonson.
In my conduct shall your ladies come. Shak.

4. That which carries or conveys anything; a channel; a conduit; an
instrument. [Obs.]
Although thou been conduct of my chame. Shak.

5. The manner of guiding or carrying one's self; personal deportment;
mode of action; behavior.
All these difficulties were increased by the conduct of Shrewsbury.
Macaulay.
What in the conduct of our life appears So well designed, so luckily
begun, But when we have our wish, we wish undone Dryden.

6. Plot; action; construction; manner of development.
The book of Job, in conduct and diction. Macaulay.
Conduct money (Naut.), a portion of a seaman's wages retained till
the end of his engagement, and paid over only if his conduct has been
satisfactory.

Syn.
 -- Behavior; deportment; demeanor; bearing; management; guidance.
See Behavior.

CONDUCT
Con*duct", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conducted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conducting.] Etym: [See Conduct, n.]

1. To lead, or guide; to escort; to attend.
I can conduct you, lady, to a low But loyal cottage, where you may be
safe. Milton.

2. To lead, as a commander; to direct; to manage; to carry on; as, to
conduct the affairs of a kingdom.
Little skilled in the art of conducting a siege. Prescott.

3. To behave; -- with the reflexive; as, he conducted himself well.

4. (Physics)

Defn: To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat,
light, electricity, etc.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: To direct, as the leader in the performance of a musical
composition.

CONDUCT
Con*duct", v. i.

1. To act as a conductor (as of heat, electricity, etc.); to carry.

2. To conduct one's self; to behave. [U. S.]

CONDUCTANCE
Con*duct"ance (kon*duk"tans), n.  [Conduct, v. + -ance.] (Elec.)

Defn: Conducting power; -- the reciprocal of resistance. A suggested
unit is the mho, the reciprocal of the ohm.

Conductance is an attribute of any specified conductor, and refers to
its shape, length, and other factors. Conductivity is an attribute of
any specified material without direct reference to its shape or other
factors.
Sloane's Elec. Dict.

CONDUCTIBILITY
Con*duct`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conductibilité.]

1. Capability of being conducted; as, the conductibility of heat or
electricity.

2. Conductivity; capacity for receiving and transmitting.

CONDUCTIBLE
Con*duct"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being conducted.

CONDUCTION
Con*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. conductio a bringing together: cf. F.
conduction.]

1. The act of leading or guiding. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. The act of training up. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

3. (Physics)

Defn: Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also,
conductivity.
[The] communication [of heat] from one body to another when they are
in contact, or through a homogenous body from particle to particle,
constitutes conduction. Amer. Cyc.

CONDUCTIVE
Con*duct"ive, a.

Defn: Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductive
tissue of a pistil.
The ovarian walls . . . are seen to be distinctly conductive. Goodale
(Gray's Bot. ).

CONDUCTIVITY
Con`duc*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving and
transmitting, as, the conductivity of a nerve. Thermal conductivity
(Physics), the quantity of heat that passes in unit time through unit
area of plate whose thickness is unity, when its opposite faces
differ in temperature by one degree. J. D. Everett.
 -- Thermometic conductivity (Physics), the thermal conductivity when
the unit of heat employed is the heat required to raise unit volume
of the substance one degree.

CONDUCTOR
Con*duct"or, n. Etym: [LL., a carrier, transporter, L., a lessee.]

1. One who, or that which, conducts; a leader; a commander; a guide;
a manager; a director.
Zeal, the blind conductor of the will. Dryden.

2. One in charge of a public conveyance, as of a railroad train or a
street car. [U. S.]

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The leader or director of an orchestra or chorus.

4. (Physics)

Defn: A substance or body capable of being a medium for the
transmission of certain forces, esp. heat or electricity;
specifically, a lightning rod.

5. (Surg.)

Defn: A grooved sound or staff used for directing instruments, as
lithontriptic forceps, etc.; a director.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Leader. Prime conductor (Elec.), the largest conductor
of an electrical machine, serving to collect, accumulate, or retain
the electricity.

CONDUCTORY
Con*duct"o*ry, a. Etym: [LL. conductorius.]

Defn: Having the property of conducting. [R.]

CONDUCTRESS
Con*duct"ress, n.

Defn: A woman who leads or directs; a directress.

CONDUIT
Con"duit ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. conductus escort,
conduit. See Conduct.]

1. A pipe, canal, channel, or passage for conveying water or fluid.
All the conduits of my blood froze up. Shak.
This is the fountain of all those bitter waters, of which, through a
hundred different conduits, we have drunk. Burke.

2. (Arch.)
(a) A structure forming a reservoir for water. Oxf. Gloss.
(b) A narrow passage for private communication.

CONDUIT SYSTEM; CONDUIT RAILWAY
Con"duit sys"tem. (Elec.)

Defn: A system of electric traction, esp. for light railways, in
which the actuating current passes along a wire or rail laid in an
underground conduit, from which the current is "picked up" by a plow
or other device fixed to the car or electric locomotive.  Hence
Conduit railway.

CONDUPLICATE
Con*du"pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. conduplicatus, p. p. of conduplicare.
See Duplicate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face being
within; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or æstivation.

CONDUPLICATION
Con*du`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. conduplicatio.]

Defn: A doubling together or folding; a duplication. [R.]

CONDURANGO
Con`du*ran"go, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Cundurango.

CONDURRITE
Con*dur"rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, from
the Condurra mine in Cornwall, England.

CONDYLAR
Con"dy*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a condyle. Condylar foramen (Anat.), a
formen in front of each condyle of the occipital bone; -- sometimes
called the anterior condylar foramen when a second, or posterior,
foramen is present behind the condyle, as often happens in man.

CONDYLE
Con"dyle ( or ), n. Etym: [L. condylus knuckle, joint, Gr. condyle.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of a
bone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied also
to a concave articular surface.

CONDYLOID
Con"dy*loid, a. Etym: [Condyle + -oid: cf. F. condyloïde.] (Anat.)

Defn: Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.

CONDYLOMA; CONDYLOME
Con`dy*lo"ma, Con"dy*lome, n.; pl. Condylomata or, E. Condylomes.
Etym: [NL. condyloma, fr. Gr. -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A wartlike new growth on the outer skin or adjoining mucous
membrance.

Note: There are two kinds of condylomata, the pointed and the broad,
the latter being of syphilitic origin.

CONDYLOPOD
Con*dyl"o*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An arthropod.

CONE
Cone, n. Etym: [L. conus cone (in sense 1), Gr. çana whetstone, L.
cuneus wedge, and prob. to E. hone. See Hone, n.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right-
angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; -
- called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having a
vertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by a
straight line always passing through that vertical point; a solid
having a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex.

2. Anything shaped more or less like a mathematical cone; as, a
volcanic cone, a collection of scoriæ around the crater of a volcano,
usually heaped up in a conical form.
Now had Night measured with her shadowy cone Half way up hill this
vast sublunar vault. Milton.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit or strobile of the Coniferæ, as of the pine, fir,
cedar, and cypress. It is composed of woody scales, each one of which
has one or two seeds at its base.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shell of the genus Conus, having a conical form. Cone of rays
(Opt.), the pencil of rays of light which proceed from a radiant
point to a given surface, as that of a lens, or conversely.
 -- Cone pulley. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Oblique or Scalene cone, a cone of which the axis is inclined to
the plane of its base.
 -- Eight cone. See Cone, 1.

CONE
Cone, v. t.

Defn: To render coneshaped; to bevel like the circular segment of a
cone; as, to cone the tires of car wheels.

CONE CLUTCH
Cone clutch. (Mach.)

Defn: A friction clutch with conical bearing surfaces.

CONEFLOWER
Cone"flow`er, n.

Defn: Any plant of the genus Rudbeckia; -- so called from the cone-
shaped disk of the flower head. Also, any plant of the related genera
Ratibida and Brauneria, the latter usually known as purple
coneflower.

CONE-IN-CONE
Cone"-in-cone", a. (Geol.)

Defn: Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of many
concentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind of
structure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks.

CONEINE
Co*ne"ine ( or ; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Conine.

CONE-NOSE
Cone"-nose`, n.

Defn: A large hemipterous insect of the family Reduviidæ, often found
in houses, esp. in the southern and western United States. It bites
severely, and is one of the species called kissing bugs. It is also
called big bedbug.

CONEPATE; CONEPATL
Co"ne*pate, Co"ne*patl, n. Etym: [Mexican conepatl and epatl.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The skunk.

CONE PULLEY
Cone" pul"ley.

Defn: A pulley for driving machines, etc., having two or more parts
or steps of different diameters; a pulley having a conical shape.

CONESTOGA WAGON; CONESTOGA WAIN
Con`es*to"ga wag`on, Con`es*to"ga wain. [From Conestoga,
Pennsylvania.]

Defn: A kind of large broad-wheeled wagon, usually covered, for
traveling in soft soil and on prairies.

CONEY
Co"ney ( or ), n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rabbit. See Cony.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish. See Cony.

CONFAB
Con"fab, n. Etym: [Contr. from confabulation.]

Defn: Familiar talk or conversation. [Colloq.]

CONFABULATE
Con*fab"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Confabulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confabulating.] Etym: [L. confabulatus, p. p. of confabulary, to
converse together; con- + fabulary to speak, fr. fabula. See Fable.]

Defn: To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.
I shall not ask Jean Jaques Rousseau If birds confabulate or no.
Cowper.

CONFABULATION
Con*fab`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. confabulatio.]

Defn: Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation.
Friends' confabulations are comfortable at all times, as fire in
winter. Burton.

CONFABULATORY
Con*fab"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.
Weever.

CONFALON
Con"fa*lon, n. Etym: [F. See Confalon.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents.

CONFARREATION
Con*far`re*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. confarreatio, fr. confarreare to
marry; con- + farreum (sc. libum cake) a spelt cake, fr. farreus made
of spelt, fr. far a sort of grain.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering of
bread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least ten
witnesses.

CONFATED
Con*fat"ed, p.a.

Defn: Fated or decreed with something else. [R.] A. Tucker.

CONFECT
Con*fect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Confected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confecting.] Etym: [L. confectus, p. p. of conficere to prepare. See
Comfit.]

1. To prepare, as sweetmeats; to make a confection of. [Obs.]
Saffron confected in Cilicia. W. Browne.

2. To construct; to form; to mingle or mix. [Obs.]
Of this were confected the famous everlasting lamps and tapers. Sir
T. Herbert.
[My joys] are still confected with some fears. Stirling.

CONFECT
Con"fect, n.

Defn: A comfit; a confection. [Obs.]
At supper eat a pippin roasted and sweetened with sugar of roses and
caraway confects. Harvey.

CONFECTION
Con*fec"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. confectio.]

1. A composition of different materials. [Obs.]
A new confection of mold. Bacon.

2. A preparation of fruits or roots, etc., with sugar; a sweetmeat.
Certain confections . . . are like to candied conserves, and are made
of sugar and lemons. Bacon.

3. A composition of drugs. Shak.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A soft solid made by incorporating a medicinal substance or
substances with sugar, sirup, or honey.

Note: The pharmacopoeias formerly made a distinction between
conserves (made of fresh vegetable substances and sugar) and
electuaries (medicinal substances combined with sirup or honey), but
the distinction is now abandoned and all are called confections.

CONFECTIONARY
Con*fec"tion*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. confectionaris a pharmacist.]

Defn: A confectioner. [Obs.]
He will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks. 1
Sam. viii. 13.

CONFECTIONARY
Con*fec"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Prepared as a confection.
The biscuit or confectionary plum. Cowper.

CONFECTIONER
Con*fec"tion*er, n.

1. A compounder. [Obs.]
Canidia Neapolitana was confectioner of unguents. Haywood.

2. One whose occupation it is to make or sell confections, candies,
etc.

CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR
Con*fec"tion*ers' sug`ar.

Defn: A highly refined sugar in impalpable powder, esp. suited to
confectioners' uses.

CONFECTIONERY
Con*fec"tion*er*y, n.

1. Sweetmeats, in general; things prepared and sold by a
confectioner; confections; candies.

2. A place where candies, sweetmeats, and similar things are made or
sold.

CONFECTORY
Con*fec"to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats. [Obs.] Beaumont.

CONFECTURE
Con*fec"ture, n.

Defn: Same as Confiture. [Obs.]

CONFEDER
Con*fed"er, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. conf. See Confederate.]

Defn: To confederate. [Obs.] Sir T. North.

CONFEDERACY
Con*fed"er*a*cy, n.; pl. Confederacies. Etym: [From Confederate, a.]

1. A league or compact between two or more persons, bodies of men, or
states, for mutual support or common action; alliance.
The friendships of the world are oft Confederacies in vice or leagues
of pleasure. Addison.
He hath heard of our confederacy. Shak.
Virginia promoted a confederacy. Bancroft.

2. The persons, bodies, states, or nations united by a league; a
confederation.
The Grecian common wealth, . . . the most heroic confederacy that
ever existed. Harris.
Virgil has a whole confederacy against him. Dryden.

3. (Law)

Defn: A combination of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act,
or to do a lawful act by unlawful means. See Conspiracy.

Syn.
 -- League; compact; alliance; association; union; combination;
confederation.

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. confoederatus, p. p. of confoederare to
join by a league; con- + foederare to establish by treaty or league,
fr. foedus league, compact. See Federal.]

1. United in a league; allied by treaty; engaged in a confederacy;
banded together; allied.
All the swords In Italy, and her confederate arms, Could not have
made this peace. Shak.

2. (Amer. Hist.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the government of the eleven Southern
States of the United States which (1860-1865) attempted to establish
an independent nation styled the Confederate States of America; as,
the Confederate congress; Confederate money.

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, n.

1. One who is united with others in a league; a person or a nation
engaged in a confederacy; an ally; also, an accomplice in a bad
sense.
He found some of his confederates in gaol. Macaulay.

2. (Amer. Hist.)

Defn: A name designating an adherent to the cause of the States which
attempted to withdraw from the Union (1860-1865).

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Confederated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confederating.]

Defn: To unite in a legue or confederacy; to ally.
With these the Piercies them confederate. Daniel.

CONFEDERATE
Con*fed"er*ate, v. i.

Defn: To unite in a league; to join in a mutual contract or covenant;
to band together.
By words men . . . covenant and confederate. South.

CONFEDERATER
Con*fed"er*a`ter, n.

Defn: A confederate.

CONFEDERATION
Con*fed`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. confoederatio: cf. F. confédération.]

1. The act of confederating; a league; a compact for mutual support;
alliance, particulary of princes, nations, or states.
The three princes enter into some strict league and confederation
among themselves. Bacon.
This was no less than a political confederation of the colonies of
New England. Palfrey.

2. The parties that are confederated, considered as a unit; a
confederacy. Articles of confederation. See under Article.

CONFEDERATIVE
Con*fed"er*a*tive ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a confederation.

CONFEDERATOR
Con*fed"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: A confederate. Grafton.

CONFER
Con*fer", v.t. [imp. & p. p. Conferred; p. pr. & vb. n. Conferring.]
Etym: [L. conferre to bring together, contribute, consult; con- +
ferre to bear: cf. F. conférer. See 1st Bear.]

1. To bring together for comparison; to compare. [Obs.]
If we confer these observations with others of the like nature, we
may find cause to rectify the general opinion. Boyle.

2. To grant as a possession; to bestow.
The public marks of honor and reward Conferred upon me. Milton.

3. To contribute; to conduce. [Obs.]
The closeness and compactness of the parts resting together doth much
confer to the strength of the union. Glanvill.

CONFER
Con*fer", v. i.

Defn: To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate.
Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered. Acts xxv.
12.
You shall hear us confer of this. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To counsel; advise; discourse; converse.

CONFEREE
Con`fer*ee", n. Etym: [Cf. Referee.]

1. One who is conferred with, or who takes part in a conference; as,
the conferees on the part of the Senate.

2. One upon whom something is conferred.

CONFERENCE
Con"fer*ence, n. Etym: [F. conférence. See Confer.]

1. The act of comparing two or more things together; comparison.
[Obs.]
Helps and furtherances which . . . the mutual conference of all men's
collections and observations may afford. Hocker.

2. The act of consulting together formally; serious conversation or
discussion; interchange of views.
Nor with such free and friendly conference As he hath used of old.
Shak.

3. A meeting for consultation, discussion, or an interchange of
opinions.

4. A meeting of the two branches of a legislature, by their
committees, to adjust between them.

5. (Methodist Church)

Defn: A stated meeting of preachers and others, invested with
authority to take cognizance of ecclesiastical matters.

6. A voluntary association of Congregational churches of a district;
the district in which such churches are. Conference meeting, a
meeting for conference. Specifically, a meeting conducted (usually)
by laymen, for conference and prayer. [U. S.] -- Conference room, a
room for conference and prayer, and for the pastor's less formal
addresses. [U. S.]

CONFERENTIAL
Con`fer*en"tial, a.

Defn: Relating to conference. [R.] Clarke.

CONFERRABLE
Con*fer"ra*ble a.

Defn: Capable of being conferred.

CONFERREE
Con`fer*ree", n.

Defn: Same as Conferee.

CONFERRER
Con*fer"rer, n.

1. One who confers; one who converses. Johnson.

2. One who bestows; a giver.

CONFERRUMINATE; CONFERRUMINATED
Con`fer*ru"mi*nate, Con`fer*ru"mi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. conferruminare
to cement. See Ferruminate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, of
contiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oak
acorn.

CONFERVA
Con*fer"va, n.; pl. Confervæ. Etym: [L., a kind of water plant. See
Comfrey.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae.
The word is frequently used in a wider sense.

CONFERVACEOUS
Con`fer*va"ceous, a.

Defn: Belonging to the confervae.

CONFERVOID
Con*fer"void, a. Etym: [Conferva + -oid.]

Defn: Like, or related to, the confervae. Loudon.

CONFERVOUS
Con*fer"vous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, the
confervae.
Yon exiguous pool's confervous scum. O. W. Holmes.

CONFESS
Con*fess", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Confessed; p.pr. & vb.n. Confessing.]
Etym: [F. confesser, fr. L. confessus, p.p. of confiteri to confess;
con- + fateri to confess; akin to fari to speak. See 2d Ban, Fame.]

1. To make acknowledgment or avowal in a matter pertaining to one's
self; to acknowledge, own, or admit, as a crime, a fault, a debt.
And there confess Humbly our faults, and pardon beg. Milton.
I must confess I was most pleased with a beautiful prospect that none
of them have mentioned. Addison.

2. To acknowledge faith in; to profess belief in.
Whosoever, therefore, shall confess me before men, him will I
confess, also, before my Father which is in heaven. Matt. x. 32.
For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel,
nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess both. Acts xxiii. 8.

3. To admit as true; to assent to; to acknowledge, as after a
previous doubt, denial, or concealment.
I never gave it him. Send for him hither, And let him confess a
truth. Shak.
As I confess it needs must be. Tennyson.
As an actor confessed without rival to shine. Goldsmith.

4. (Eccl.)
(a) To make known or acknowledge, as one's sins to a priest, in order
to receive absolution; -- sometimes followed by the reflexive
pronoun.
Our beautiful votary took an opportunity of confessing herself to
this celebrated father. Addison.

(b) To hear or receive such confession; -- said of a priest.
He . . . heard mass, and the prince, his son, with him, and the most
part of his company were confessed. Ld. Berners.

5. To disclose or reveal, as an effect discloses its cause; to prove;
to attest.
Tall thriving trees confessed the fruitful mold. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Admit; grant; concede; avow; own; assent; recognize; prove;
exhibit; attest.
 -- To Confess, Acknowledge, Avow. Acknowledge is opposed to conceal.
We acknowledge what we feel must or ought to be made known. (See
Acknowledge.) Avow is opposed to withhold. We avow when we make an
open and public declaration, as against obloquy or opposition; as, to
avow one's principles; to avow one's participation in some act.
Confess is opposed to deny. We confess (in the ordinary sense of the
word) what we feel to have been wrong; as, to confess one's errors or
faults. We sometimes use confess and acknowledge when there is no
admission of our being in the wrong; as, this, I confess, is my
opinion; I acknowledge I have always thought so; but in these cases
we mean simply to imply that others may perhaps think us in the
wrong, and hence we use the words by way of deference to their
opinions. It was in this way that the early Christians were led to
use the Latin confiteor and confessio fidei to denote the public
declaration of their faith in Christianity; and hence the
corresponding use in English of the verb confess and the noun
confession.

CONFESS
Con*fess", v. i.

1. To make confession; to disclose sins or faults, or the state of
the conscience.
Every tongue shall confess to God. Rom. xiv. 11.

2. To acknowledge; to admit; to concede.
But since (And I confess with right) you think me bound. Tennyson.

CONFESSANT
Con*fess"ant, n. Etym: [F. confessant.]

Defn: One who confesses to a priest. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONFESSARY
Con*fess"a*ry, n. Etym: [LL. confessarius.]

Defn: One who makes a confession. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

CONFESSEDLY
Con*fess"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By confession; without denial. [Written also confessly.]

CONFESSER
Con*fess"er, n.

Defn: One who makes a confession.

CONFESSION
Con*fes"sion, n. Etym: [F. confession, L. confessio.]

1. Acknowledgment; avowal, especially in a matter pertaining to one's
self; the admission of a debt, obligation, or crime.
With a crafty madness keeps aloof, When we would bring him on to some
confession Of his true state. Shak.

2. Acknowledgment of belief; profession of one's faith.
With the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Rom. x. 10.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: The act of disclosing sins or faults to a priest in order to
obtain sacramental absolution.
Auricular confession . . . or the private and special confession of
sins to a priest for the purpose of obtaining his absolution. Hallam.

4. A formulary in which the articles of faith are comprised; a creed
to be assented to or signed, as a preliminary to admission to
membership of a church; a confession of faith.

5. (Law)

Defn: An admission by a party to whom an act is imputed, in relation
to such act. A judicial confession settles the issue to which it
applies; an extrajudical confession may be explained or rebutted.
Wharton. Confession and avoidance (Law), a mode of pleading in which
the party confesses the facts as stated by his adversary, but alleges
some new matter by way of avoiding the legal effect claimed for them.
Mozley & W. Confession of faith, a formulary containing the articles
of faith; a creed.
 -- General confession, the confession of sins made by a number of
persons in common, as in public prayer.
 -- Westminster Confession. See Westminster Assembly, under Assembly.

CONFESSIONAL
Con*fes"sion*al, n. Etym: [F. confessional.]

Defn: The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits to
hear confessions; often a small structure furnished with a seat for
the priest and with a window or aperture so that the penitent who is
outside may whisper into the priest's ear without being seen by him
or heard by others.

CONFESSIONAL
Con*fes"sion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a confession of faith. Confessional equality,
equality before the law of persons confessing different creeds.

CONFESSIONALISM
Con*fes"sion*al*ism, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assent
to any particular formula of the Christian faith. Shaff.

CONFESSIONALIST
Con*fes"sion*al*ist, n.

Defn: A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession. [R.] Boucher

CONFESSIONARY
Con*fes"sion*a*ry, n. Etym: [LL. confessionarium.]

Defn: A confessional. [Obs.] Johnson.

CONFESSIONARY
Con*fes"sion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to auricular confession; as, a confessionary litany.

CONFESSIONIST
Con*fes"sion*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. confessioniste.]

Defn: One professing a certain faith. Bp. Montagu.

CONFESSOR
Con*fess"or, n. Etym: [OF. confessor, F. confesseur, fr. L. & LL.
confessor.]

1. One who confesses; one who acknowledges a fault, or the truth of a
charge, at the risk of suffering; specifically, one who confesses
himself a follower of Christ and endures persecution for his faith.
He who dies for religion is a martyr; he who suffers for it is a
confessor. Latham.
Our religion which hath been sealed with the blood of so many martyrs
and confessors. Bacon.

2. A priest who hears the confessions of others and is authorized to
grant them absolution.

CONFESSORSHIP
Con*fess"or*ship, n.

Defn: The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith.
Our duty to contend even to confessorship. J. H. Newman.

CONFESTLY
Con*fest"ly, adv.

Defn: See Cofessedly.

CONFETTI
Con*fet"ti, n. pl.; sing. -fetto. [It. Cf. Comfit.]

Defn: Bonbons; sweetmeats; confections; also, plaster or paper
imitations of, or substitutes for, bonbons, often used by carnival
revelers, at weddings, etc.

CONFIDANT; CONFIDANTE
Con`fi*dant"; 277), n. masc., Con`fi*dante", n. fem.Etym: [F.
confident, confidente, formerly also spelt confidant, confidante. See
Confide, and cf. Confident.]

Defn: One to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of
love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend.
You love me for no other end Than to become my confidant and friend;
As such I keep no secret from your sight. Dryden.

CONFIDE
Con*fide", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Confided; p.pr. & vb.n. Confiding.]
Etym: [L. confidere; con- + fidere to trust. See Faith, and cf.
Affiance.]

Defn: To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usually
followed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers.
By thy command I rise or fall, In thy protection I confide. Byron.
Judge before friendships, then confide till death. Young.

CONFIDE
Con*fide", v. t.

Defn: To intrust; to give in charge; to commit to one's keeping; --
followed by to.
Congress may . . . confide to the Circuit jurisdiction of all
offenses against the United States. Story.

CONFIDENCE
Con"fi*dence, n. Etym: [L. confidentia firm trust in, self-
confidence: cf. F. confidence.]

1. The act of confiding, trusting, or putting faith in; trust;
reliance; belief; -- formerly followed by of, now commonly by in.
Society is built upon trust, and trust upon confidence of one
another's integrity. South.
A cheerful confidence in the mercy of God. Macaulay.

2. That in which faith is put or reliance had.
The Lord shall be thy confidence. Prov. iii. 26.

3. The state of mind characterized by one's reliance on himself, or
his circumstamces; a feeling of self-sufficiency; such assurance as
leads to a feeling of security; self-reliance; -- often with self
prefixed.
Your wisdom is consumed in confidence; Do not go forth to-day. Shak.
But confidence then bore thee on secure Either to meet no danger, or
to find Matter of glorious trial. Milton.

4. Private conversation; (pl.) secrets shared; as, there were
confidences between them.
Sir, I desire some confidence with you. Shak.
Confidence game, any swindling operation in which advantage is taken
of the confidence reposed by the victim in the swindler.
 -- Confidence man, a swindler.
 -- To take into one's confidence, to admit to a knowledge of one's
feelings, purposes, or affairs.

Syn.
 -- Trust; assurance; expectation; hope.
I am confident that very much be done. Boyle.

2. Trustful; without fear or suspicion; frank; unreserved.
Be confident to speak, Northumberland; We three are but thyself.
Shak.

3. Having self-reliance; bold; undaunted.
As confident as is the falcon's flight Against a bird, do I with
Mowbray fight. Shak.

4. Having an excess of assurance; bold to a fault; dogmatical;
impudent; presumptuous.
The fool rageth and is confident. Prov. xiv. 16.

5. Giving occasion for confidence. [R.]
The cause was more confident than the event was prosperious. Jer.
Taylor.

CONFIDENT
Con"fi*dent, n.

Defn: See Confidant. South. Dryden.

CONFIDENTIAL
Con`fi*den"tial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. confidentiel.]

1. Enjoying, or treated with, confidence; trusted in; trustworthy;
as, a confidential servant or clerk.

2. Communicated in confidence; secret. "Confidential messages."
Burke. Confidential communication (Law) See Privileged communication,
under Privileged.
 -- Confidential creditors, those whose claims are of such a
character that they are entitled to be paid before other creditors.
 -- Confidential debts, debts incurred for borrowed money, and
regarded as having a claim to be paid before other debts. McElrath.

CONFIDENTIALLY
Con`fi*den"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In confidence; in reliance on secrecy.

CONFIDENTLY
Con"fi*dent*ly, adv.

Defn: With confidence; with strong assurance; positively.

CONFIDENTNESS
Con"fi*dent*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being confident.

CONFIDER
Con*fid"er, n.

Defn: One who confides.

CONFIDING
Con*fid"ing, a.

Defn: That confides; trustful; unsuspicious.
 -- Con*fid"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Con*fid"ing*ness, n.

CONFIGURATE
Con*fig"ur*ate, v. i. Etym: [L. configuratus, p.p. of configurare to
form or after; con- + figurare to form, figura form. See Figure.]

Defn: To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure;
to agree with a pattern.
Known by the name of uniformity; Where pyramids to pyramids relate
And the whole fabric doth configurate. Jordan.

CONFIGURATION
Con*fig`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. configuratio.]

1. Form, as depending on the relative disposition of the parts of a
thing' shape; figure.
It is the variety of configurations [of the mouth] . . . which gives
birth and origin to the several vowels. Harris.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: Relative position or aspect of the planets; the face of the
horoscope, according to the relative positions of the planets at any
time.
They [astrologers] undertook . . . to determine the course of a man's
character and life from the configuration of the stars at the moment
of his birth. Whewell.

CONFIGURE
Con*fig"ure, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Configured; p.pr. & vb.n.
Configuring.] Etym: [L. configurare: cf. F. configurer. See
Configurate.]

Defn: To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape.
Bentley.

CONFINABLE
Con*fin"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited.
Not confinable to any limits. Bp. Hall.

CONFINE
Con*fine", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Confined; p.pr. & vb.n. Confining.]
Etym: [F. confiner to border upon, LL. confinare to set bounds to;
con- + finis boundary, end. See Final, Finish.]

Defn: To restrain within limits; to restrict; to limit; to bound; to
shut up; to inclose; to keep close.
Now let not nature's hand Keep the wild flood confined! let order
die! Shak.
He is to confine himself to the compass of numbers and the slavery of
rhyme. Dryden.
To be confined, to be in childbed.

Syn.
 -- To bound; limit; restrain; imprison; immure; inclose;
circumscribe; restrict.

CONFINE
Con"fine or

Defn: (v. i. To have a common boundary; to border; to lie contiguous;
to touch; -- followed by on or with. [Obs.]
Where your g;oomy bounds Confine with heaven. Milton.
Beywixt hezven and earth and skies there stands a place. Confuining
on all three. Dryden.

CONFINE
Con"fine, n.

1. Common boundary; border; limit; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Events that came to pass within the confines of Judea. Locke.
And now in little space The confines met of emryrean heaven, And of
this world. Milton.
On the confines of the city and the Temple. Macaulay.

2. Apartment; place of restraint; prison. [Obs.]
Confines, wards, and dungeons. Shak.
The extravagant and erring spirit hies To his confine. Shak.

CONFINELESS
Con"fine`less ( or ), a.

Defn: Without limitation or end; boundless. Shak.

CONFINEMENT
Con*fine"ment, n.

1. Restraint within limits; imprisonment; any restraint of liberty;
seclusion.
The mind hates restraint, and is apt to fancy itself under
confinement when the sight is pent up. Addison.

2. Restraint within doors by sickness, esp. that caused by
childbirth; lying-in.

CONFINER
Con*fin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, limits or restrains.

CONFINER
Con"fi`ner ( or , n.

Defn: One who lives on confines, or near the border of a country; a
borderer; a near neighbor. [Obs.] Bacon.
Happy confiners you of other lands, That shift your soil, and oft
'scape tyrants' hands. Daniel.

CONFINITY
Con*fin"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. confinité.]

Defn: Community of limits; contiguity. [R.] Bailey.

CONFIRM
Con*firm", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Confrmed; p.pr. & vb.n. Confirming.]
Etym: [OE. confermen, confirmen, OF. confermer, F. confirmer, fr. L.
confirmare; con- + firmare to make firm, fr. firmus firm. See Firm.]

1. To make firm or firmer; to add strength to; to establish; as,
health is confirmed by exercise.
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs. Shak.
Annd confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law. Ps. cv. 10.

2. To strengthen in judgment or purpose.
Confirmed, then, I resolve Adam shall share with me in bliss or woe.
Milton.

3. To give new assurance of the truth of; to render certain; to
verify; to corroborate; as, to confirm a rumor.
Your eyes shall witness and confirm my tale. Pope.
These likelihoods confirm her flight. Shak.

4. To render valid by formal assent; to complete by a necessary
sanction; to ratify; as, to confirm the appoinment of an official;
the Senate confirms a treaty.
That treaty so prejudicial ought to have been remitted rather than
confimed. Swift.

5. (Eccl.)

Defn: To administer the rite of confirmation to. See Confirmation, 3.
Those which are thus confirmed are thereby supposed to be fit for
admission to the sacrament. Hammond.

Syn.
 -- To strengthen; corroborate; substantiate; establish; fix; ratify;
settle; verify; assure.

CONFIRMABLE
Con*firm"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be confirmed.

CONFIRMANCE
Con*firm"ance, n.

Defn: Confirmation. [Obs.]

CONFIRMATION
Con`fir*ma"tion, n. Etym: [F. confirmation, L. confirmatio.]

1. The act of confirming or strengthening; the act of establishing,
ratifying, or sanctioning; as, the confirmation of an appointment.
Their blood is shed In confirmation of the noblest claim. Cowper.

2. That which confirms; that which gives new strength or assurance;
as to a statement or belief; additional evidence; proof; convincing
testimony.
Trifles light as air Are to the jealous confirmations strong As
proofs of holy writ. Shak.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted,
through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the full
privileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the Episcopal
Church, etc.
This ordinance is called confirmation, because they who duly receive
it are confirmed or strengthened for the fulfillment of their
Christian duties, by the grace therein bestowed upon them. Hook.

4. (Law)

Defn: A conveyance by which a voidable estate is made sure and not
voliable, or by which a particular estate is increased; a contract,
express or implied, by which a person makes that firm and binding
which was before voidable.

CONFIRMATIVE
Con*firm"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. confirmativus: cf. F. confirmatif.]

Defn: Tending confirm or establish. Sherwood.
 -- Con*firm"a*tive*ly, adv.

CONFIRMATOR
Con"fir*ma`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer. Sir T. Browne.

CONFIRMATORY
Con*firm"a*to*ry, a. .

Defn: Serving to confirm; corroborative.
A fact confirmatory of the conclusion. I. Taylor.

2. Pertaining to the rite of confirmation. Compton.

CONFIRMEDLY
Con*firm"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With confirmation.

CONFIRMEDNESS
Con*firm"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A fixed state.

CONFIRMEE
Con`fir*mee", n. Etym: [F. confirm, p.p. of confirmer.] (Law)

Defn: One to whom anuthing is confirmed.

CONFIRMER
Con*firm"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; one
who corroborates. Shak.

CONFIRMINGLY
Con*firm"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a confirming manner.

CONFISCABLE
Con*fis"ca*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. confiscable.]

Defn: Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture.

CONFISCATE
Con"fis*cate ( or , a. Etym: [L. confiscatus, p.p. of confiscare to
confiscate, prop., to lay up in a chest; con- + fiscus basket, purse,
treasury. See Fiscal.]

Defn: Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use;
forfeited.
Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. Shak.

CONFISCATE
Con"fis*cate ( or , v. t. [imp & p. p. Confiscated; p.pr & vb. n.
Confiscating.]

Defn: To seize as forfeited to the public treasury; to appropriate to
the public use.
It was judged that he should be banished and his whole estate
confiscated and seized. Bacon.

CONFISCATION
Con`fis*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. confiscatio.]

Defn: The act or process of taking property or condemning it to be
taken, as forfeited to the public use.
The confiscations following a subdued rebellion. Hallam.

CONFISCATOR
Con"fis*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L., a treasurer.]

Defn: One who confiscates. Burke.

CONFISCATORY
Con*fis"ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations.
"Confiscatory and exterminatory periods." Burke.

CONFIT
Con"fit, n.

Defn: Same as Comfit. [Obs.]

CONFITENT
Con"fi*tent, n. Etym: [L. confitens, p.pr.]

Defn: One who confesses his sins and faults. [Obs.]

CONFITEOR
Con*fit"e*or, n. Etym: [L., I confess. See Confess.] (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made.

CONFITURE
Con"fi*ture ( or , n.

Defn: The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;
adaptation; suitableness. Sir J. Reynolds.
If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, that
union should have been thrice blessed. Motley.

CONFIX
Con*fix", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Confixing.]
[L. confixus, p. p. of configere to fasten together.]

Defn: To fix; to fasten. [Obs.]  Shak.

CONFIXURE
Con*fix"ure (; 135), n.

Defn: Act of fastening. [Obs.]

CONFLAGRANT
Con*fla"grant, a. [L. conflagrans, p. pr. of conflagrare; con- +
flagrare to blaze. See Flagrant.]

Defn: Burning together in a common flame. [R.] "The conflagrant
mass."  Milton.

CONFLAGRATION
Con`fla*gra"tion, n. [L. conflagratio: cf. F. conflagration.]

Defn: A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; a
general burning.

Till one wide conflagration swallows all.
Pope.

CONFLATE
Con*flate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Conflated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conflating.] [L. conflatus, p. p. of conflare to blow together; con-
+ flare to blow.]

Defn: To blow together; to bring together; to collect;  to fuse
together; to join or weld; to consolidate.

The State-General, created and conflated by the passionate effort of
the whole nation.
Carlyle.

CONFLATION
Con*fla"tion, n. [L. conflatio.]

Defn: A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or of
many fires in a foundry. [R.]  Bacon.

CONFLICT
Con"flict, n. [L. conflictus a striking together, fr. confligere, -
flictum, to strike together, to fight: cf. F. conflit, formerly also
conflict. See Conflict, v.]

1. A striking or dashing together; violent collision; as, a conflict
of elements or waves.

2.  A strife for the mastery; hostile contest; battle; struggle;
fighting.

As soon as he [Atterbury] was himself again, he became eager for
action and conflict.
Macaulay.

An irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces.
W. H. Seward.

Conflict of laws, that branch of jurisprudence which deals with
individual litigation claimed to be subject to the conflicting laws
of two or more states or nations; -- often used as synonymous with
Private international law.

Syn. -- Contest; collision; struggle; combat; strife; contention;
battle; fight; encounter. See Contest.

CONFLICT
Con*flict", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Conflicted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conflicting.] [L. conflictus, p. p. of confligere to conflict (cf.
conflictare); con- + fligere to strike; cf. Gr. fli`bein, qli`bein,
to press, L. flagrum whip.]

1. To strike or dash together; to meet in violent collision; to
collide. Shak.

Fire and water conflicting together.
Bacon.

2.  To maintain a conflict; to contend; to engage in strife or
opposition; to struggle.

A man would be content to . . . conflict with great difficulties, in
hopes of a mighty reward.
Abp. Tillotson.

3.  To be in opposition; to be contradictory.

The laws of the United States and of the individual States may, in
some cases, conflict with each other.
Wheaton.

Syn. -- To fight; contend; contest; resist; struggle; combat; strive;
battle.

CONFLICTING
Con*flict"ing, a.

Defn: Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending;
contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.

Torn with sundry conflicting passions.
Bp. Hurd.

CONFLICTIVE
Con*flict"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to conflict; conflicting.  Sir W. Hamilton.

CONFLUENCE
Con"flu*ence, n. [L. confluentia.]

1. The act of flowing together; the meeting or junction of two or
more streams; the place of meeting.

New York stood at the confluence of two rivers.
Bancroft.

2.  Any running together of separate streams or currents; the act of
meeting and crowding in a place; hence, a crowd; a concourse; an
assemblage.

You see this confluence, this great flood of vistors.
Shak.

The confluence . . . of all true joys.
Boyle.

CONFLUENT
Con"flu*ent, a. [L. confluens, -entis, p. pr. of confluere, -fluxum;
con- + fluere to flow.  See Fluent.]

1. Flowing together; meeting in their course; running one into
another.

These confluent steams make some great river's head.
Blackmore.

2.  (Bot.) Blended into one; growing together, so as to obliterate
all distinction.

3.  (Med.)
 (a) Running together or uniting, as pimples or pustules.
 (b) Characterized by having the pustules, etc., run together or
unite, so as to cover the surface; as, confluent smallpox.
Dunglison.

CONFLUENT
Con"flu*ent, n.

1. A small steam which flows into a large one.

2.  The place of meeting of steams, currents, etc. [Obs.]  Holland.

CONFLUX
Con"flux, n. [From L. confluxus, p. p. See Confluent.]

1. A flowing together; a meeting of currents. "The conflux of meeting
sap."  Shak.

The general conflux and concourse of the whole people.
Clarendon.

2.  A large assemblage; a passing multitude.

To the gates cast round thine eye, and see
What conflux issuing forth, or entering in.
Milton.

CONFLUXIBILITY
Con*flux`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The  tendency of fluids to run together. [R.] Boyle.

CONFLUXIBLE
Con*flux"i*ble, a.

Defn: Inclined to flow or run together. --Con*flux"i*ble*ness, n.

CONFOCAL
Con*fo"cal, a. (Math.)

Defn: Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.

CONFORM
Con*form", a. [L. conformis; con- + forma form: cf. F. conforme.]

Defn: Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.  Bacon.

Care must be taken that the interpretation be every way conform to
the analogy of faith.
Bp.Hall.

CONFORM
Con*form", v. i.

1. To be in accord or harmony; to comply; to be obedient; to submit;
-- with to or with.

A rule to which experience must conform.
Whewell.

2.  (Eng. Eccl. Hist.) To comply with the usages of the Established
Church; to be a conformist.

About two thousand ministers whose consciences did not suffer them to
conform were driven from their benefices in a day.
Macaulay.

CONFORM
Con*form", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Conformed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conforming.] [F. conformer, L. conformare, -formatum; con- + formare
to form, forma form. See Form.]

Defn: To shape in accordance with; to make like; to bring into
harmony or agreement with; -- usually with to or unto.

Demand of them wherefore they conform not themselves unto the order
of the church.
Hooker.

CONFORMABILITY
Con*form`a*bil"i*ty, n.

1. The state of being conformable.

2.  (Geol.) The parallelism of two sets of strata which are in
contact.

CONFORMABLE
Con*form"a*ble, a.

1. Corresponding in form, character, opinions, etc.; similar; like;
consistent; proper or suitable; --usually followed by to.

The fragments of Sappho give us a taste of her way of writing
perfectly conformable with that character.
Addison.

Conformable to Scripture as well as to philosophy.
Whewell.

To make matters somewhat conformable for the old knight.
Sir W. Scott.

2. Disposed to compliance or obedience; ready to follow directions;
submissive; compliant.

I have been to you a true and humble wife,
At all times to your will conformable.
Shak.

3.  (Geol.) Parallel, or nearly so; -- said of strata in contact.

CONFORMABLENESS
Con*form"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conformable; conformability.

CONFORMABLY
Con*form"a*bly, adv.

Defn: With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.

Conformably to the law and nature of God.
Bp. Beveridge.

CONFORMANCE
Con*form"ance, n.

Defn: Conformity. [R.]  Marston.

CONFORMATE
Con*form"ate, a. [L. conformatus, p. p.  See Conform.]

Defn: Having the same form. [R.]

CONFORMATION
Con`for*ma"tion, n. [L. conformatio: cf. F. conformation.]

1. The act of conforming; the act of producing conformity.

The conformation of our hearts and lives to the duties of true
religion and morality.
I. Watts.

2.  The state of being conformed; agreement; hence; structure, as
depending on the arrangement of parts; form; arrangement.

In Hebrew poetry, there may be observed a certain conformation of the
sentences.
Lowth.

A structure and conformation of the earth.
Woodward.

CONFORMATOR
Con"for*ma`tor, n. [L., a framer.]

Defn: An apparatus for taking the conformation of anything, as of the
head for fitting a hat, or, in craniometry, finding the largest
horizontal area of the head.

CONFORMER
Con*form"er, n.

Defn: One who conforms; one who complies with established forms or
doctrines.

CONFORMIST
Con*form"ist, n.

Defn: One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to the
Church of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguished
from a dissenter or nonconformist.

A cheeful conformist to your judgment.
Jer.Taylor.

CONFORMITY
Con*form"i*ty, n.; pl. Conformities (#). [Cf. F. conformité.]

1. Correspondence in form, manner, or character; resemblance;
agreement; congruity; -- followed by to, with, or between.

By our conformity to God.
Tillotson.

The end of all religion is but to draw us to a conformity with God.
Dr. H.More.

A conformity between the mental taste and the sensitive taste.
Addison.

2.  (Eng. Eccl. Hist.) Compliance with the usages of the Established
Church.

The king [James I.] soon afterward put forth a proclamation requiring
all ecclesiastical and civil officers to do their duty by enforcing
conformity.
Hallam.

CONFORTATION
Con`for*ta"tion, n. [Cf. F. confortation, LL. confortatio. Cf.
Comfort.]

Defn: The act of strengthening. [Obs.]  Bacon.

CONFOUND
Con*found" (kon*found"), v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confounded; p. pr. &
vb. n. Confounding.] [F. confondre, fr. L. confundere, -fusum, to
pour together; con- + fundere to pour. See Fuse to melt, and cf.
Confuse.]

1. To mingle and blend, so that different elements can not be
distinguished; to confuse.

They who strip not ideas from the marks men use for them, but
confound them with words, must have endless dispute.
Locke.

Let us go down, and there confound their language.
Gen. xi. 7.

2.  To mistake for another; to identify falsely.

They [the tinkers] were generally vagrants and pilferers, and were
often confounded with the gypsies.
Macaulay.

3.  To throw into confusion or disorder; to perplex; to strike with
amazement; to dismay.

The gods confound...
The Athenians both within and out that wall.
Shak.

They trusted in thee and were not confounded.
Ps. xxii. 5.

So spake the Son of God, and Satan stood
A while as mute, confounded what to say.
Milton.

4.  To destroy; to ruin; to waste. [Obs.]

One man's lust these many lives confounds.
Shak.

How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour
Shak.

Syn. -- To abash; confuse; baffle; dismay; astonish; defeat; terrify;
mix; blend; intermingle. See Abash.

CONFOUNDED
Con*found"ed, a.

1. Confused; perplexed.

A cloudy and confounded philosopher.
Cudworth.

2.  Excessive; extreme; abominable. [Colloq.]

He was a most confounded tory.
Swift.

The tongue of that confounded woman.
Sir. W. Scott.

CONFOUNDEDLY
Con*found"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Extremely; odiously; detestably. [Colloq.] "Confoundedly sick."
Goldsmith.

CONFOUNDEDNESS
Con*found"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being confounded.

Their witty descant of my confoundedness.
Milton.

CONFOUNDER
Con*found"er, n.

Defn: One who confounds.

CONFRACT
Con"fract`, a. [L. confractus, p. p. of confringere.]

Defn: Broken in pieces; severed. [Obs.]

CONFRAGOSE
Con`fra*gose", a. [L. confragosus; con- + fragosus, fr. frangere. See
Fragile.]

Defn: Broken; uneven. [Obs.] "Confragose cataracts."  Evelyn.

CONFRATERNITY
Con`fra*ter"ni*ty, n.; pl. Confraternities (#). [LL. confraternitas:
cf. F. confraternité. See Fraternity.]

Defn: A society or body of men united for some purpose, or in some
profession; a brotherhood.

These live in one society and confraternity.
Stow.

CONFRERE
Con`frere", n. [F.]

Defn: Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate.

CONFRICATION
Con`fri*ca"tion, n. [L. confricatio, fr. confricare to rub
vigorously.]

Defn: A rubbing together; friction. [Obs.] Bacon.

CONFRIER
Con*fri"er, n. [Cf. F. confrère. See Friar.]

Defn: A confrère. [Obs.]  Weever.

CONFRONT
Con*front", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Confronted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Confronting.] [F. confronter; L. con- + frons the forehead or front.
See Front.]

1. To stand facing or in front of; to face; esp. to face hostilely;
to oppose with firmness.

We four, indeed, confronted were with four
In Russian habit.
Shak.

He spoke and then confronts the bull.
Dryden.

Hester caught hold of Pearl, and drew her forcibly into her arms,
confronting the old Puritan magistrate with almost a fierce
expression.
Hawthorne.

It was impossible at once to confront the might of France and to
trample on the liberties of England.
Macaulay.

2.  To put face to face; to cause to face or to meet; as, to confront
one with the proofs of his wrong doing.

3.  To set in opposition for examination; to put in contrast; to
compare.

When I confront a medal with a verse, I only show you the same design
executed by different hands.
Addison.

CONFRONTATION
Con`fron*ta"tion, n. [LL. confrontatio.]

Defn: Act of confronting.  H. Swinburne.

CONFRONTE
Con`fron`té", a. [F., p. p. confronter.] (Her.)

Defn: Same as Affronté.

CONFRONTER
Con*front"er, n.

Defn: One who confronts.

A confronter in authority.
Speed.

CONFRONTING
confronting n.

Defn: dealing with (a person or problem) directly; taking the bull by
the horns.
Syn. -- braving, coping with, grappling, tackling.
[WordNet 1.5 +PJC]

CONFRONTMENT
Con*front"ment, n.

Defn: The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.

CONFRONTMENT
Con*front"ment, n.

Defn: The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.

CONFUCIAN
Con*fu"cian, a.

Defn: Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher
and teacher. -- n.

Defn: A Confucianist.

CONFUCIANISM
Con*fu"cian*ism, n.

Defn: The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples,
which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education. It
can hardly be called a religion, as it does not inculcate the worship
of any god.  S. W. Williams.

CONFUCIANIST
Con*fu"cian*ist, n.

Defn: A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.  S. W. Williams.

CONFUS
Con*fus, a. [F. See Confuse, a.]

Defn: Confused, disturbed. [Obs.]  Chaucer.

CONFUSABILITY
Con*fus`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being confused.

CONFUSABLE
Con*fus"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being confused.

CONFUSE
Con*fuse", a. [F. confus, L. confusus, p. p. of confundere. See
Confound.]

Defn: Mixed; confounded. [Obs.] Baret.

CONFUSE
Con*fuse", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confused; p. pr. & vb. n. Confusing.]

1. To mix or blend so that things can not be distinguished; to jumble
together; to confound; to render indistinct or obscure; as, to
confuse accounts; to confuse one's vision.

A universal hubbub wild
Of stunning sounds and voices all confused.
Milton.

2.  To perplex; to disconcert; to abash; to cause to lose self-
possession.

Nor thou with shadowed hint confuse
A life that leads melodious days.
Tennyson.

Confused and sadly she at length replied.
Pope.

Syn. -- To abash; disorder; disarrange; disconcert; confound;
obscure; distract. See Abash.

CONFUSEDLY
Con*fus"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a confused manner.

CONFUSEDNESS
Con*fus"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A state of confusion.  Norris.

CONFUSELY
Con*fuse"ly, adv.

Defn: Confusedly; obscurely. [Obs.]

CONFUSION
Con*fu"sion, n. [F. confusion, L. confusio.]

1. The state of being mixed or blended so as to produce
indistinctness or error; indistinct combination; disorder; tumult.

The confusion of thought to which the Aristotelians were liable.
Whewell.

Moody beggars starving for a time
Of pellmell havoc and confusion.
Shak.

2.  The state of being abashed or disconcerted; loss self-possession;
perturbation; shame.

Confusion dwelt in every face
And fear in every heart.
Spectator.

3.  Overthrow; defeat; ruin.

Ruin seize thee, ruthless king,
Confusion on thy banners wait.
Gray.

4.  One who confuses; a confounder. [Obs.]  Chapmen.

Confusion of goods (Law), the intermixture of the goods of two or
more persons, so that their respective portions can no longer be
distinguished. Blackstone.  Bouvier.

CONFUSIVE
Con*fu"sive, a.

Defn: Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.  Bp. Hall.

CONFUTABLE
Con*fut"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be confuted.

A conceit . . . confutable by daily experience.
Sir T.Browne.

CONFUTANT
Con*fut"ant, n. [L. confutans, p. pr. of confutare.]

Defn: One who undertakes to confute.  Milton.

CONFUTATION
Con`fu*ta"tion, n. [L. confutatio: cf. F. confutation.]

Defn: The act or process of confuting; refutation.  "For the
edification of some and the confutation of others."  Bp. Horne.

CONFUTATIVE
Con*fut"a*tive, a.

Defn: Adapted or designed to confute.  Bp. Warburton

CONFUTE
Con*fute, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Confuted; p. pr. & vb. n. Confuting.]
[L. confutare to chek (a boiling liquid), to repress, confute; con- +
a root seen in futis a water vessel), prob. akin to fundere to pour:
cf. F. confuter. See Fuse to melt.]

Defn: To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove or
show to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.

Satan stood . . . confuted and convinced
Of his weak arguing fallacious drift.
Milton.

No man's error can be confuted who doth not . . . grant some true
principle that contradicts his error.
Chillingworth.

I confute a good profession with a bad conversation.
Fuller.

Syn. -- To disprove; overthrow; sed aside; refute; oppugn. -- To
Confute, Refute. Refute is literally to and decisive evidence; as, to
refute a calumny, charge, etc. Confute is literally to check boiling,
as when cold water is poured into hot, thus serving to allay, bring
down, or neutralize completely. Hence, as applied to arguments (and
the word is never applied, like refute, to charges), it denotes, to
overwhelm by evidence which puts an end to the case and leaves an
opponent nothing to say; to silence; as, "the atheist is confuted by
the whole structure of things around him."

CONFUTEMENT
Con*fute"ment, n.

Defn: Confutation. [Obs.]  Milton.

CONFUTER
Con*fut"er, n.

Defn: One who confutes or disproves.

CONG
Cong, n. (Med.)

Defn: An abbreviation of Congius.

CONGE
Con"ge, v. i. [Imp. & p. p. Congeed; p. pr. & vb. n. Congeing.] [OF.
congier, congeer, F. congédier, fr. congé. See Congé, n.]

Defn: To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow or
courtesy.

I have congeed with the duke, done my adieu with his  nearest.
Shak.

CONGE
Con`gé" (kôN`zhay"; E. kon"je; 277), n. [F., leave, permission, fr.
L. commeatus a going back and forth, a leave of absence, furlough,
fr. commeare, -meatum, to go and come; com- + meare to go. Cf.
Permeate.] [Formerly written congie.]

1. The act of taking leave; parting ceremony; farewell; also,
dismissal.

Should she pay off old Briggs and give her her congé
Thackeray.

2.  The customary act of civility on any occasion; a bow or a
courtesy.

The captain salutes you with congé profound.
Swift.

3.  (Arch.) An apophyge. Gwilt.

Congé d'élire [F., leave to choose] (Eccl.), the sovereign's license
or permission to a dean and chapter to choose as bishop the person
nominated in the missive.

CONGEABLE
Con"ge*a*ble, a. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable.

CONGEAL
Con*geal", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Congealed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Congealing.] [F. congeler, L. congelare, -gelatumn; con- + gelare to
freeze, gelu frost. See Gelid.]

1. To change from a fluid to a solid state by cold; to freeze.

A vapory deluge lies to snow congealed.
Thomson.

2.  To affect as if by freezing; to check the flow of, or cause to
run cold; to chill.

As if with horror to congeal his blood.
Stirling.

CONGEAL
Con*geal", v. i.

Defn: To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; to
become solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to be
chilled.

Lest zeal, now melted . . .
Cool and congeal again to what it was.
Shak.

CONGEALABLE
Con*geal"a*ble, a. [Cf. F. congelable.]

Defn: Capable of being congealed. --Con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.

CONGEALEDNESS
Con*geal"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being congealed.  Dr. H.More.

CONGEALMENT
Con*geal"ment, n.

1. The act or the process of congealing; congeliation.

2.  That which is formed by congelation; a clot. [Obs.]

Wash the congealment from your wounds.
Shak.

CONGEE
Con"gee, n. & v.

Defn: See Congé, Conge. [Obs.]

And unto her his congee came to take.
Spenser.

CONGEE
Con*gee", n.

1. [Tamil kashi boilings.]

Defn: Boiled rice; rice gruel. [India]

2.  A jail; a lockup. [India]

Congee discharges, rice water discharges. Dunglison. -- Congee water,
water in which rice has been boiled.

CONGELATION
Con`ge*la"tion, n. [F. congélation, L. congelatio.]

1. The act or process of passing, or causing to pass, from a fluid to
a solid state, as by the abstraction of heat; the act or process of
freezing.

The capillary tubes are obstructed either by outward compression or
congelation of the fluid.
Arbuthnot.

2.  The state of being congealed.

3.  That which is congealed.

Sugar plums . . . with a multitude of congelations in jellies of
various colors.
Taller.

CONGENER
Con"ge*ner (; 277), n.  [From L. congener. See Congenerous.]

Defn: A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied in
nature, character, or action.

The cherry tree has been often grafted on the laurel, to which it is
a congener.
P. Miller.

Our elk is more polygamous in his habits than any other deer except
his congener, the red deer of Europe.
Caton.

CONGENERACY
Con*gen"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: Similarity of origin; affinity. [Obs.]  Dr. H. More.

CONGENERIC; CONGENERICAL
Con`ge*ner"ic, Con`ge*ner"ic*al, a.

Defn: Belonging to the same genus; allied in origin, nature, or
action.  R. Owen.

CONGENEROUS
Con*gen"er*ous, a. [L. congener; con- + genus, generis, birth, kind,
race. See Genus, and cf. Congener.]

Defn: Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerous
diseases. [Obs.]  Sir T. Browne.

-- Con*gen"er*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] Hallywell.

CONGENIAL
Con*gen"ial (; 106), a. [Pref. con- + genial.]

1. Partaking of the same nature; allied by natural characteristics;
kindred; sympathetic.

Congenial souls! whose life one avarice joins.
Pope.

2.  Naturally adapted; suited to the disposition. "Congenial clime."
C. J. Fox.

To defame the excellence with which it has no sympathy . . . is its
congenial work.
I. Taylor.

CONGENIALITY
Con*ge`ni*al"i*ty ( or ; 106), n.

Defn: The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;
adaptation; suitableness.  Sir J. Reynolds.

If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, that
union should have been thrice blessed.
Motley.

CONGENIALIZE
Con*gen"ial*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make congenial. [R.]

CONGENIALLY
Con*gen"ial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed.

CONGENIALNESS
Con*gen"ial*ness, n.

Defn: Congeniality.

CONGENIOUS
Con*gen"ious, a.

Defn: Congeneric. [Obs.]

CONGENITAL
Con*gen"i*tal, a. Etym: [From Congenite.]

Defn: Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one from
birth; born with one; connate; constitutinal; natural; as, a
congenital deformity. See Connate.

CONGENITALLY
Con*gen"i*tal*ly, dv.

Defn: In a congenital manner.

CONGENITE
Con*gen"ite, a. Etym: [L. congenitus; con- + genitus, p.p. of gignere
to beget. See Generate.]

Defn: Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital. [Obs.]
Many conclusions, of moral and intellectual truths, seem . . . to be
congenite with us. Sir M. Hale.

CONGER
Con"ger, n. Etym: [L. conger, congrus, akin to Gr. congre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The conger eel; -- called also congeree. Conger sea (Zoöl.),
the sea eel; a large species of eel (Conger vulgaris), which
sometimes grows to the length of ten feet.

CONGERIES
Con*ge"ri*es, n. sing & pl. Etym: [L., fr. congerere. See Congest.]

Defn: A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; an
aggregation.

CONGEST
Con*gest", v. t. Etym: [L. congestus, p. p. of congere to bring
together; con- + gerere. See Gerund.]

1. To collect or gather into a mass or aggregate; to bring together;
to accumulate.
To what will thy congested guilt amount Blackmore.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. the
capillaries) of an organ or part.

CONGESTED
Con*gest"ed, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Crowded together. Gray.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Containing an unnatural accumulation of blood; hyperæmic; --
said of any part of the body.

CONGESTION
Con*ges"tion, n. Etym: [L. congestio: cf. F. congestion.]

1. The act of gathering into a heap or mass; accumulation. [Obs.]
The congestion of dead bodies one upon another. Evelyn.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., in
any locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); local
hyperas, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of the
lungs.

CONGESTIVE
Con*gest"ive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in some
part of the body; as, a congestive fever.

CONGIARY
Con"gi*a*ry, n.; pl. Congiaries. Etym: [L. congiarium, fr. congius a
liquid measure.]

Defn: A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor to
the soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each in
a congius. Addison.

Note: In later years, when gifts of money were distributed, the name
congius was retained.

CONGIUS
Con"gi*us, n. Etym: [L.]

1. (Roman Antiq.)

Defn: A liquid measure containing about three quarts.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A gallon, or four quarts. [Often abbreviated to cong.]

CONGLACIATE
Con*gla"ci*ate (; 221), v. t. & i. Etym: [L. conglaciatus, p.p. of
conglaciare. See Glaciate.]

Defn: To turn to ice; to freeze. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CONGLACIATION
Con*gla`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conglaciation.]

Defn: The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of being
converted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost. Bacon.

CONGLOBATE
Con*glo"bate, a. Etym: [L. conglobatus, p.p. of conglobare to
conglobate. See Globate.]

Defn: Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, the
conglobate [lymphatic] glands; conglobate flowers.

CONGLOBATE
Con*glo"bate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conglobated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conglobating.] Etym: [Cf. Conglore.]

Defn: To collect or form into a ball or rounded mass; to gather or
mass together.
Conglobated bubbles undissolved. Wordsworth.

CONGLOBATION
Con`glo*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. conglobatio: cf. F. conglobation.]

1. The act or process of forming into a ball. Sir T. Browne.

2. A round body.

CONGLOBE
Con*globe", v. t. [imp & p. p. Conglobed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Conglobing.] Etym: [L. conglobare: cf. F. conglober. Cf. Conglobate.]

Defn: To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.
Then founded, then conglobed Like things to like. Milton.

CONGLOBE
Con*globe", v. i.

Defn: To collect, unite, or coalesce in a round mass. Milton.

CONGLOBULATE
Con*glob"u*late, v. i. Etym: [Pref. con- + globule.]

Defn: To gather into a small round mass.

CONGLOMERATE
Con*glom"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. conglomeratus, p.p. of conglomerare to
roll together; con- + glomerare to wind into a ball. See Glomerate.]

1. Gathered into a ball or a mass; collected together; concentrated;
as, conglomerate rays of light.
Beams of light when they are multiplied and conglomerate. Bacon.
Fluids are separated in the liver and the other conglobate and
conglomerate glands. Cheyne.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Closely crowded together; densly clustered; as, conglomerate
flowers. Gray.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Composed of stones, pebbles, or fragments of rocks, cemented
together.

CONGLOMERATE
Con*glom"er*ate, n.

1. That which is heaped together in a mass or conpacted from various
sources; a mass formed of fragments; collection; accumulation.
A conglomerate of marvelous anecdotes, marvelously heaped together.
Trench.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A rock, composed or rounded fragments of stone cemented
together by another mineral substance, either calcareous, siliceous,
or argillaceous; pudding stone; -- opposed to agglomerate. See
Breccia.
A conglomerate, therefore, is simply gravel bound together by a
cement. Lyell.

CONGLOMERATE
Con*glom"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conglomerated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conglomerating.]

Defn: To gather into a ball or round body; to collect into a mass.

CONGLOMERATION
Con*glom`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. conglomeratio: cf. F.
conglomeration.]

Defn: The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of being
thus collected; collection; accumulation; that which is
conglomerated; a mixed mass. Bacon.

CONGLUTIN
Con*glu"tin, n. Etym: [From Conglutinate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found in
almonds, rye, wheat, etc.

CONGLUTINANT
Con*glu"ti*nant, a. Etym: [L., conglutinans, p.pr.]

Defn: Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere;
promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of the
parts.

CONGLUTINATE
Con*glu"ti*nate, a. Etym: [L. conglutinatus, p.p. of conglutinare to
glue; con- + glutinare to glue, gluten glue.]

Defn: Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance.

CONGLUTINATE
Con*glu"ti*nate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conglutinated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conglutinating.]

Defn: To glue together; to unite by some glutinous or tenacious
substance; to cause to adhere or to grow together.
Bones . . . have had their broken parts conglutinated within three or
four days. Boyle.

CONGLUTINATE
Con*glu"ti*nate, v. i.

Defn: To unite by the intervention of some glutinous substance; to
coalesce.

CONGLUTINATION
Con*glu`ti*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. conglutinatio: cf. F.
conglutination.]

Defn: A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacious
substance; junction; union.
Conglutination of parts separated by a wound. Arbuthnot.

CONGLUTINATIVE
Con*glu"ti*na"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conglutinatif.]

Defn: Conglutinant.

CONGO; CONGOU
Con"go, Con"gou, n. Etym: [Chin. kung-foo labor.]

Defn: Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty) than the
present bohea. See Tea.
Of black teas, the great mass is called Congou, or the "well worked",
a name which took the place of the Bohea of 150 years ago, and is now
itself giving way to the term "English breakfast tea." S. W.
Williams.

CONGO GROUP
Con"go group. [From Congo red.]

Defn: A group of artificial dyes with an affinity for vegetable
fibers, so that no mordant is required. Most of them are azo
compounds derived from benzidine or tolidine. Called also benzidine
dyes.

CONGO RED
Congo red. (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial red dye from which the Congo group received its
name. It is also widely used either in aqueous solution or as test
paper (Congo paper) for the detection of free acid, which turns it
blue.

CONGO SNAKE
Con"go snake". (Zoöl.)

Defn: An amphibian (Amphiuma means) of the order Urodela, found in
the southern United States. See Amphiuma.

CONGRATULANT
Con*grat"u*lant, a. Etym: [L. congratulans, p. pr.]

Defn: Rejoicing together; congratulatory.
With like joy Congratulant approached him. Milton.

CONGRATULATE
Con*grat"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Congratulated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Congratulating.] Etym: [L. congratulatus, p.p. of congratulari to
wish joy abundantly; con- + gratulari to wish joy, from gratus
pleasing. See Grateful.]

Defn: To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on account
of some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to.
It is the king's most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulate
the princess at her pavilion. Shak.
To congratulate one's self, to rejoice; to feel satisfaction; to
consider one's self happy or fortunate.

Syn.
 -- To Congratulate, Felicitate. To felicitate is simply to wish a
person joy. To congratulate has the additional signification of
uniting in the joy of him whom we congratulate. Hence they are by no
means synonymous. One who has lost the object of his affections by
her marriage to a rival, might perhaps felicitate that rival on his
success, but could never be expected to congratulate him on such an
event.
Felicitations are little better than compliments; congratulations are
the expression of a genuine sympathy and joy. Trench.

CONGRATULATE
Con*grat"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To express of feel sympathetic joy; as, to congratulate with
one's country. [R.] Swift.
The subjects of England may congratulate to themselves. Dryden.

CONGRATULATION
Con*grat`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. congratulatio: cf. F.
congratulation.]

Defn: The act of congratulating; an expression of sympathetic
pleasure.
With infinite congratulations for our safe arrival. Dr. J. Scott.

CONGRATULATOR
Con*grat"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who offers congratulation. Milton.

CONGRATULATORY
Con*grat"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter.

CONGREE
Con*gree", v. i. Etym: [Pref.on-+ L. gratus pleasing. Cf. Agree.]

Defn: To agree. [bs.] Shak.

CONGREET
Con*greet", v. t.

Defn: To salute mutually. [Obs.]

CONGREGATE
Con"gre*gate, a. Etym: [L. congregatus, p.p. of congregare to
congregate; on- + gregare to collect into a flock, fr. grex flock,
herd. See Gregarious.]

Defn: Collected; compact; close. [R.] Bacon.

CONGREGATE
Con"gre*gate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Congregated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Congregating]

Defn: To collect into an assembly or assemblage; to assemble; to
bring into one place, or into a united body; to gather together; to
mass; to compact.
Any multitude of Christian men congregated may be termed by the name
of a church. Hooker.
Cold congregates all bodies. Coleridge.
The great receptacle Of congregated waters he called Seas. Milton.

CONGREGATE
Con"gre*gate, v. i.

Defn: To come together; to assemble; to meet.
Even there where merchants most do congregate. Shak.

CONGREGATION
Con`gre*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. congregatio: cf. F. congrégation.]

1. The act of congregating, or bringing together, or of collecting
into one aggregate or mass.
The means of reduction in the fire is but by the congregation of
homogeneal parts. Bacon.

2. A collection or mass of separate things.
A foul and pestilent congregation of vapors. Shak.

3. An assembly of persons; a gathering; esp. an assembly of persons
met for the worship of God, and for religious instruction; a body of
people who habitually so meet.
He [Bunyan] rode every year to London, and preached there to large
and attentive congregations. Macaulay.

4. (Anc. Jewish Hist.)

Defn: The whole body of the Jewish people; -- called also
Congregation of the Lord.
It is a sin offering for the congregation. Lev. iv. 21.

5. (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A body of cardinals or other ecclesiastics to whom as intrusted
some departament of the church business; as, the Congregation of the
Propaganda, which has charge of the missions of the Roman Catholic
Church.
(b) A company of religious persons forming a subdivision of a
monastic order.

6. The assemblage of Masters and Doctors at Oxford or Cambrige
University, mainly for the granting of degrees. [Eng.]

7. (Scotch Church Hist.)

Defn: the name assumed by the Protestant party under John Knox. The
leaders called themselves (1557) Lords of the Congregation.

CONGREGATIONAL
Con`gre*ga"tion*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a congregation; conducted, or participated in,
by a congregation; as, congregational singing.

2. Belonging to the system of Congregationalism, or to
Congregationalist; holding to the faith and polity of
Congregationalism; as, a Congregational church.

CONGREGATIONALISM
Con`gre*ga"tion*al*ism, n.

1. That system of church organization which vests all ecclesiastical
power in the assembled brotherhood of each local church.

2. The faith and polity of the Congregational churches, taken
collectively.

Note: In this sense (which is its usual signification)
Congregationalism is the system of faith and practice common to a
large body of evangelical Trinitarian churches, which recognize the
local brotherhood of each church as independent of all dictation in
ecclesiastical matters, but are united in fellowship and joint
action, as in councils for mutual advice, and in consociations,
conferences, missionary organizations, etc., and to whose membership
the designation "Congregationalists" is generally restricted; but
Unitarian and other churches are Congregational in their polity.

CONGREGATIONALIST
Con`gre*ga"tion*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one who
holds to Congregationalism.

CONGRESS
Con"gress, n.; pl. Congresses. Etym: [L. congressus, fr. congredi,
p.p. -gressus, to go or come together; con- + grati to go or step,
gradus step: cf. F. congr. See Grade.]

1. A meeting of individuals, whether friendly or hostile; an
encounter. [Obs.]
Here Pallas urges on, and Lausus there;congress in the field great
Jove withstands. Dryden.

2. A sudden encounter; a collision; a shock; -- said of things.
[Obs.]
From these laws may be deduced the rules of the congresses and
reflections of two bodies. Cheyne.

3. The coming together of a male and female in sexual commerce; the
act of coition. Pennant.

4. A gathering or assembly; a conference.

5. A formal assembly, as of princes, deputies, representatives,
envoys, or commissioners; esp., a meeting of the representatives of
several governments or societies to consider and determine matters of
common interest.
The European powers strove to . . . accommodate their differences at
the congress of Vienna. Alison.

6. The collective body of senators and representatives of the people
of a nation, esp. of a republic, constituting the chief legislative
body of the nation.

Note: In the Congress of the United States (which took the place of
the Federal Congress, March 4, 1789), the Senate consists of two
Senators from each State, chosen by the State legislature for a term
of six years, in such a way that the terms of one third of the whole
number expire every year; the House of Representatives consists of
members elected by the people of the several Congressional districts,
for a term of two years, the term of all ending at the same time. The
united body of Senators and Representatives for any term of two years
for which the whole body of Representatives is chosen is called one
Congress. Thus the session which began in December, 1887, was the
first (or long) session, and that which began in December, 1888, was
the second (or short) session, of the Fiftieth Congress. When an
extra session is had before the date of the first regular meeting of
a Congress, that is called the first session, and the following
regular session is called the second session.

7. The lower house of the Spanish Cortes, the members of which are
elected for three years. The Continental Congress, an assembly of
deputies from the thirteen British colonies in America, appointed to
deliberate in respect to their common interests. They first met in
1774, and from time thereafter until near the close of the
Revolution.
 -- The Federal Congress, the assembly of representatives of the
original States of the American Union, who met under the Articles of
Confederation from 1781 till 1789.
 -- Congress boot or gaiter, a high shoe or half-boot, coming above
the ankle, and having the sides made in part of some elastic material
which stretches to allow the boot to be drawn on and off. [U.S.] --
Congress water, a saline mineral water from the Congress spring at
Saratoga, in the State of New York.

Syn.
 -- Assembly; meeting; convention; convocation; council; diet;
conclave; parliament; legislature.

CONGRESSION
Con*gres"sion ( or , n. Etym: [L. congressio.]

Defn: A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in a
dispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse. [R.] Jer.
Taylor.

CONGRESSIONAL
Con*gres"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress of
the United States; as, congressional debates.
Congressional and official labor. E. Everett.
Congressional District, one of the divisions into which a State is
periodically divided (according to population), each of which is
entitled to elect a Representative to the Congress of the United
States.

CONGRESSIVE
Con*gres"sive, a.

Defn: Encountering, or coming together. Sir T. Browne.

CONGRESSMAN
Con"gress*man, n.; pl. Congressmen (.

Defn: A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of the
House of Representatives.

CONGREVE ROCKET
Con"greve rock"et.

Defn: See under Rocket.

CONGRUE
Con"grue", v. i. Etym: [L. congruere. See Congruous.]

Defn: To agree; to be suitable. [Obs.] Shak.

CONGRUENCE
Con"gru*ence, n. Etym: [L. congruentia: cf. OF. cornguence.]

Defn: Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency.
Holland.

CONGRUENCY
Con"gru*en*cy ( or ), n.

Defn: Congruence. Congruency of lines. (Geom.) See Complex of lines,
under Complex, n.

CONGRUENT
Con"gru*ent, a. Etym: [L. congruens, p.pr. of congruere: cf. F.
congruent.]

Defn: Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.
The congruent and harmonious fitting of parts in a sentence. B.
Jonson.
Congruent figures (Geom.), concurring figures.

CONGRUISM
Con"gru*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. congruisme.] (Scholastic Theol.)

Defn: See Congruity.

CONGRUITY
Con*gru"i*ty ( or , n.; pl. Congruities. Etym: [Cf. F. congruit.]

1. The state or quality of being congruous; the relation or agreement
between things; fitness; harmony; correspondence; consistency.
With what congruity doth the church of Rome deny that her enemies do
at all appertain to the church of Christ Hooker.
A whole sentence may fail of its congruity by wanting one particle.
Sir P. Sidney.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: Coincidence, as that of lines or figures laid over one another.

3. (Scholastic Theol.)

Defn: That, in an imperfectly good persons, which renders it suitable
for God to bestow on him gifts of grace.

CONGRUOUS
Con"gru*ous, a. Etym: [L. congruus, fr. congruere to come together,
to coincide, to agree. Of uncertain origin.]

Defn: Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious;
correspondent; consistent.
Not congruous to the nature of epic poetry. Blair.
It is no ways congruous that God should be always frightening men
into an acknowledgment of the truth. Atterbury.

CONGRUOUSLY
Con"gru*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a congruous manner.

CONHYDRINE
Con*hy"drine ( or , n. Etym: [Conium + hydrate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock
(Conium maculatum). It is a white crystalline substance, C8H17NO,
easily convertible into conine.

CONIA
Co*ni"a ( or , n. Etym: [NL. See Conium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Conine.

CONIC; CONICAL
Con"ic, Con"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. conique. See Cone.]

1. Having the form of, or resembling, a geometrical cone; round and
tapering to a point, or gradually lessening in circumference; as, a
conic or conical figure; a conical vessel.

2. Of or pertaining to a cone; as, conic sections. Conic section
(Geom.), a curved line formed by the intersection of the surface of a
right cone and a plane. The conic sections are the parabola, ellipse,
and hyperbola. The right lines and the circle which result from
certain positions of the plane are sometimes, though not generally
included.
 -- Conic sections, that branch of geometry which treats of the
parabola, ellipse, and hyperbola.
 -- Conical pendulum. See Pendulum.
 -- Conical projection, a method of delineating the surface of a
sphere upon a plane surface as if projected upon the surface of a
cone; -- much used by makers of maps in Europe.
 -- Conical surface (Geom.), a surface described by a right line
moving along any curve and always passing through a fixed point that
is not in the plane of that curve.

CONIC
Con"ic, n. (Math.)

Defn: A conic section.

CONICALITY
Con`i*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Conicalness.

CONICALLY
Con"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form of a cone.

CONICALNESS
Con"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being conical.

CONICO-
Con"i*co- (, a. Etym: [See Conic.]

Defn: A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as,
conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico-
hemispherical; conico-subulate.

CONICOID
Con"i*coid, a. Etym: [Conic + -oid.] (Math.)

Defn: Same as Conoidal.

CONICS
Con"ics, n.

1. That branch of geometry which treats of the cone and the curves
which arise from its sections.

2. Conic sections.

CONIDIUM
Co*nid"i*um, n.; pl. Conida. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi,
and often containing zoöspores.

CONIFER
Co"ni*fer, n. Etym: [L. conifer; conus cone + ferre to bear: cf. F.
conifère.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae,
which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew.

CONIFERIN
Co*nif"er*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferous
trees as a white crystalline substance.

CONIFEROUS
Co*nif"er*ous, a.
(a) Bearing cones, as the pine and cypress.
(b) Pertaining to the order Coniferae, of which the pine tree is the
type.

CONIFORM
Co"ni*form, a. Etym: [Cone + -form: cf. F. coniforme.]

Defn: Cone-shaped; conical.

CONIINE
Co*ni"ine ( or , n.

Defn: See Conine.

CONIMENE
Co"ni*mene, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Olibene.

CONINE
Co"nine ( or , n. Etym: [From Conium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the
hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N,
of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as a
derivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. It
occasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called also
coniine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2.

CONIROSTER
Co`ni*ros"ter, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Conirostres.

CONIROSTRAL
Co`ni*ros"tral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Conirostres.

CONIROSTRES
Co`ni*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. conus cone + rostrum beak:
cf. F. conirostre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strong
conical bill, as the finches.

CONISOR
Con`i*sor", n. Etym: [Obs.]

Defn: See Cognizor.

CONISTRA
Co*nis"tra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Greek Antiq.)

Defn: Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among the
Greeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinkling
the wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself. Hence, a part of the
orchestra of the Greek theater.

CONITE
Co"nite, n. Etym: [Gr. conite. So called on account of its gray
color.] (Min.)

Defn: A magnesian variety of dolomite.

CONIUM
Co*ni"um ( or , n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous
plants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The common hemlock (Conium maculatum, poison hemlock, spotted
hemlock, poison parsley), a roadside weed of Europe, Asia, and
America, cultivated in the United States for medicinal purpose. It is
an active poison. The leaves and fruit are used in medicine.

CONJECT
Con*ject", v. t. Etym: [L. conjectus, p.p. of conjicere. See
Conjecture, n.]

Defn: To throw together, or to throw. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu.

CONJECT
Con*ject", v. t.

Defn: To conjecture; also, to plan. [Obs.]

CONJECTOR
Con*ject"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who guesses or conjectures. [Obs.]
A great conjector at other men by their writings. Milton.

CONJECTURABLE
Con*jec"tur*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being conjectured or guessed.

CONJECTURAL
Con*jec"tur*al, a. Etym: [L. conjecturalis: cf. F. conjectural.]

Defn: Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at;
undetermined; doubtful.
And mak'st conjectural fears to come into me. Shak.
A slight expense of conjectural analogy. Hugh Miller.
Who or what such editor may be, must remain conjectural. Carlyle.

CONJECTURALIST
Con*jec"tur*al*ist, n.

Defn: A conjecturer. [R.] Month. rev.

CONJECTURALLY
Con*jec`tur*al"ly, n.

Defn: That which depends upon guess; guesswork. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

CONJECTURALLY
Con*jec`tur*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conjectural manner; by way of conjecture. Boyle.

CONJECTURE
Con*jec"ture, n. Etym: [L. conjectura, fr. conjicere, conjectum, to
throw together, infer, conjecture; con- + jacere to throw: cf. F.
conjecturer. See Jet a shooting forth.]

Defn: An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptive
evidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.
He [Herodotus] would thus have corrected his first loose conjecture
by a real study of nature. Whewell.
Conjectures, fancies, built on nothing firm. Milton.

CONJECTURE
Con*jec"ture, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjectured; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conjecturing.] Etym: [Cf. F. conjecturer. Cf. Conject.]

Defn: To arrive at by conjecture; to infer on slight evidence; to
surmise; to guess; to form, at random, opinions concerning.
Human reason can then, at the best, but conjecture what will be.
South.

CONJECTURE
Con*jec"ture, v. i.

Defn: To make conjectures; to surmise; to guess; to infer; to form an
opinion; to imagine.

CONJECTURER
Con*jec"tur*er, n.

Defn: One who conjectures. Hobbes.

CONJOIN
Con*join, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjoined; p.pr. & vb.n. Conjoining.]
Etym: [F. conjoindre, fr. L. conjungere, -junctum; con- + jungere to
join. See Join, and cf. Conjugate, Conjunction.]

Defn: To join together; to unite.
The English army, that divided was Into two parties, is now conjoined
in one. Shak.
If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be
conjoined. Shak.
Let that which he learns next be nearly conjoined with what he knows
already. Locke.

CONJOIN
Con*join", v. i.

Defn: To unite; to join; to league. Shak.

CONJOINED
Con*joined", a. (Her.)

Defn: Joined together or touching.

CONJOINT
Con*joint", a. Etym: [F. conjoint, p.p. of conjoindre. See Conjoin,
and cf. Conjunct.]

Defn: United; connected; associated. "Influence conjoint." Glover.
Conjoint degrees (Mus.), two notes which follow each other
immediately in the order of the scale, as ut and re. Johnson.
Conjoint tetrachords (Mus.), two tetrachords or fourths, where the
same note is the highest of one and the lowest of the other; -- also
written conjunct.

CONJOINTLY
Con*joint"ly, adv.

Defn: In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together. Sir T.
Browne.

CONJOINTNESS
Con*joint"ness, n.

Defn: The qquality of being conjoint.

CONJUBILANT
Con*ju"bi*lant, a.

Defn: Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together. [R.] Neale.

CONJUGAL
Con"ju*gal, a. Etym: [L. conjugalis, fr. conjux husband, wife,
consort, fr. conjungere to unite, join in marriage. See Conjoin.]

Defn: Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriage
state or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial. "Conjugal
affection." Milton.

CONJUGALITY
Con`ju*gal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The conjugal state; sexual intercourse. [R.] Milton.

CONJUGALLY
Con"ju*gal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially.

CONJUGATE
Con"ju*gate, a. Etym: [L. conjugatus, p.p. or conjugare to unite;
con- + jugare to join, yoke, marry, jugum yoke; akin to jungere to
join. See Join.]

1. United in pairs; yoked together; coupled.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: In single pairs; coupled.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Containing two or more radicals supposed to act the part of a
single one. [R.]

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Agreeing in derivation and radical signification; -- said of
words.

5. (Math.)

Defn: Presenting themselves simultaneously and having reciprocal
properties; -- frequently used in pure and applied mathematics with
reference to two quantities, points, lines, axes, curves, etc.
Conjugate axis of a hyperbola (Math.), the line through the center of
the curve, perpendicular to the line through the two foci.
 -- Conjugate diameters (Conic Sections), two diameters of an ellipse
or hyperbola such that each bisects all chords drawn parallel to the
other.
 -- Conjugate focus (Opt.) See under Focus.
 -- Conjugate mirrors (Optics), two mirrors so placed that rays from
the focus of one are received at the focus of the other, especially
two concave mirrors so placed that rays proceeding from the principal
focus of one and reflected in a parallel beam are received upon the
other and brought to the principal focus.
 -- Conjugate point (Geom.), an acnode. See Acnode, and Double point.
 -- Self-conjugate triangle (Conic Sections), a triangle each of
whose vertices is the pole of the opposite side with reference to a
conic.

CONJUGATE
Con`ju*gate, n. Etym: [L. conjugatum a combining, etymological
relationship.]

1. A word agreeing in derivation with another word, and therefore
generally resembling it in signification.
We have learned, in logic, that conjugates are sometimes in name
only, and not in deed. Abp. Bramhall.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A complex radical supposed to act the part of a single radical.
[R.]

CONJUGATE
Con"ju*gate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjugated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Conjugating.]

1. To unite in marriage; to join. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: To inflect (a verb), or give in order the forms which it
assumed in its several voices, moods, tenses, numbers, and persons.

CONJUGATE
Con"ju*gate, v. i. (Biol.)

Defn: To unite in a kind of sexual union, as two or more cells or
individuals among the more simple plants and animals.

CONJUGATION
Con`ju*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. conjugatio conjugation (in senses 1 &
3).]

1. the act of uniting or combining; union; assemblage. [Obs.]
Mixtures and conjugations of atoms. Bentley.

2. Two things conjoined; a pair; a couple. [Obs.]
The sixth conjugations or pair of nerves. Sir T. Browne.

3. (Gram.)
(a) The act of conjugating a verb or giving in order its various
parts and inflections.
(b) A scheme in which are arranged all the parts of a verb.
(c) A class of verbs conjugated in the same manner.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: A kind of sexual union; -- applied to a blending of the
contents of two or more cells or individuals in some plants and lower
animals, by which new spores or germs are developed.

CONJUGATIONAL
Con`ju*ga"tion*al, a.

Defn: relating to conjugation. Ellis.

CONJUGIAL
Con*ju"gi*al, a. Etym: [L. conjugialis, fr. conjugium. Cf. Conjugal.]

Defn: Conjugal. [R.] Swedenborg.

CONJUGIUM
Con*ju"gi*um, n. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: The marriage tie.

CONJUNCT
Con*junct", a. Etym: [L. conjunctus, p.p. See Conjoin.]

1. United; conjoined; concurrent. [Archaic]

2. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Conjoined.

CONJUNCTION
Con*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. conjunctio: cf. F. conjunction. See
Conjoin.]

1. The act of conjoining, or the state of being conjoined, united, or
associated; union; association; league.
He will unite the white rose and the red: Smille heaven upon his fair
conjunction. Shak.
Man can effect no great matter by his personal strength but as he
acts in society and conjunction with others. South.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The meeting of two or more stars or planets in the same degree
of the zodiac; as, the conjunction of the moon with the sun, or of
Jupiter and Saturn. See the Note under Aspect, n., 6.

Note: Heavenly bodies are said to be in conjunction when they are
seen in the same part of the heavens, or have the same longitude or
right ascension. The inferior conjunction of an inferior planet is
its position when in conjunction on the same side of the sun with the
earth; the superior conjunction of a planet is its position when on
the side of the sun most distant from the earth.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A connective or connecting word; an indeclinable word which
serves to join together sentences, clauses of a sentence, or words;
as, and, but, if.
Though all conjunctions conjoin sentences, yet, with respect to the
sense, some are conjunctive and some disjunctive. Harris.

CONJUNCTIONAL
Con*junc"tion*al, a.

Defn: Relating to a conjunction.

CONJUNCTIVA
Con`junc*ti"va, n. Etym: [NL., from L. conjunctivus connective.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of the
ball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctival
membrance.

CONJUNCTIVAL
Con`junc*ti"val, a.

1. Joining; connecting.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the conjunctiva.

CONJUNCTIVE
Con*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. conjunctivus.]

1. Serving to unite; connecting together.

2. Closely united. [Obs.] Shak. Conjunctive mood (Gram.), the mood
which follows a conjunction or expresses contingency; the subjunctive
mood.
 -- Conjunctive tissue (Anat.), the tissue found in nearly all parts
of most animals. It yields gelatin on boiling, and consists of
vriously arranged fibers which are imbedded protoplasmic cells, or
corpuscles; -- called also cellular tissue and connective tissue.
Adipose or fatty tissue is one of its many forms, and cartilage and
bone are sometimes included by the phrase.

CONJUNCTIVELY
Con*junc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In conjunction or union; together. Sir T. Browne.

CONJUNCTIVENESS
Con*junc"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being conjunctive. Johnson.

CONJUNCTIVITIS
Con*junc`ti*vi"tis ( or , n. (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the conjunctiva.

CONJUNCTLY
Con*junct"ly, adv.

Defn: In union; conjointly; unitedly; together. Sir W. Hamilton.

CONJUNCTURE
Con*junc"ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. conjoncture, LL. conjunctura.]

1. The act of joining, or state of being joined; union; connection;
combination.
The conjuncture of philosophy and divinity. Hobbes.
A fit conjuncture or circumstances. Addison.

2. A crisis produced by a combination of circumstances; complication
or combination of events or circumstances; plight resulting from
various conditions.
He [Chesterfield] had recently governed Ireland, at a momentous
conjuncture, with eminent firmness, wisdom, and humanity. Macaulay.

CONJURATION
Con`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. conjuratio, cf. F. conjuration.]

1. The act of calling or summoning by a sacred name, or in solemn
manner; the act of binding by an oath; an earnest entreaty;
adjuration.
We charge you, in the name of God, take heed; . . . Under this
conjuration speak, my lord. Shak.

2. The act or process of invoking supernatural aid by the use of a
magical form of words; the practice of magic arts; incantation;
enchantment.
Pretended conjurations and prophecies of that event. Hallam.

3. A league for a criminal purpose; conspiracy. [Obs.] "The
conjuration of Catiline." Sir T. Elyot.

CONJURATOR
Con"ju*ra`tor, n. Etym: [LL.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath with
others; a compurgator. Burrill.

CONJURE
Con*jure", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conjured; p.pr. & vb.n. Conjuring.]
Etym: [F. conjurer, fr. L. conjurare to swear together, to conspire;
con- + jurare to swear. See Jury.]

Defn: To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; to
implore earnestly; to adjure.
I conjure you, let him know, Whate'er was done against him, Cato did
it. Addison.

CONJURE
Con*jure", v. i.

Defn: To combine together by an eath; to conspire; to confederate. [A
Latinism]
Drew after him the third part of Heaven's sons Conjured against the
Highest. Milton.

CONJURE
Con"jure, v. t.

Defn: To affect or effect by conjuration; to call forth or send away
by magic arts; to excite or alter, as if by magic or by the aid of
supernatural powers.
The habitation which your prophet . . . conjured the devil into.
Shak.
To conjure up, or make visible, as a spirit, by magic arts; hence, to
invent; as, to conjure up a story; to conjure up alarms.

CONJURE
Con"jure, v. i.

Defn: To practice magical arts; to use the tricks of a conjurer; to
juggle; to charm.
She conjures; away with her. Shak.

CONJUREMENT
Con*jure"ment, n.

Defn: Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty. [Obs.] Milton.

CONJURER
Con*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in a
solemn manner.

CONJURER
Con"jur*er, n.

1. One who practices magic arts; one who pretends to act by the aid
super natural power; also, one who performs feats of legerdemain or
sleight of hand.
Dealing with witches and with conjurers. Shak.
From the account the loser brings, The conjurer knows who stole the
things. Prior.

2. One who conjectures shrewdly or judges wisely; a man of sagacity.
[Obs.] Addison.

CONJUROR
Con*ju"ror, n. (Law)

Defn: One bound by a common cath with others. [Obs.]

CONJURY
Con"ju*ry, n.

Defn: The practice of magic; enchantment. Motley.

CONN
Conn, v. t.

Defn: See Con, to direct a ship.

CONNASCENCE; CONNASCENCY
Con*nas"cence, Con*nas"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. con- + nascentia birth,
fr. nascens, p.pr. of nasci to be born.]

1. The common birth of two or more at the same tome; production of
two or more together. Johnson.

2. That which is born or produced with another.

3. The act of growing together. [Obs.] Wiseman.

CONNASCENT
Con*nas"cent, a.

Defn: Born together; produced at the same time. Craig.

CONNATE
Con"nate, a. Etym: [L. connatus; con- + natus born, p.p. of nasci.
See Cognate.]

1. Born with another; being of the same birth.

2. Congenital; existing from birth. "Connate notions." South.
A difference has been made by some; those diseases or conditions
which are dependent on original conformation being called congenital;
while the diseases of affections that may have supervened during
gestation or delivery are called connate. Dunglison.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Congenitally united; growing from one base, or united at their
bases; united into one body; as, connate leaves or athers. See
Illust. of Connate-perfoliate.

CONNATE-PERFOLIATE
Con"nate-per*fo"li*ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broad
foliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; --
applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset.

CONNATION
Con*na"tion, n.

Defn: Connection by birth; natural union. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

CONNATURAL
Con*nat"u*ral, a. Etym: [Pref. con- + natural.]

1. Connected by nature; united in nature; inborn; inherent; natural.
These affections are connatural to us. L'Estrange.

2. Partaking of the same nature.
And mix with our connatural dust. Milton.

CONNATURALITY
Con*nat`u*ral"i*ty, n.

Defn: Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.
[R.]
A congruity and connaturality between them. Sir M. Hale.

CONNATURALIZE
Con*nat"u*ral*ize, v. t.

Defn: To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt. [Obs.]
Dr. J. Scott.

CONNATURALLY
Con*nat"u*ral*ly, adv.

Defn: By the act of nature; originally; from birth. Sir M. Hale.

CONNATURALNESS
Con*nat"u*ral*ness, n.

Defn: Participation of the same nature; natural union. I. Walton.

CONNATURE
Con*na"ture, n.

Defn: Participation in a common nature or character. [R.]
Connature was defined as likeness in kind between either two changes
in consciousness, or two states of consciousness. H. Spencer.

CONNECT
Con*nect", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Connected; p.pr. & vb.n. Connecting.]
Etym: [L. connectere, -nexum; con- + nectere to bind. See Annex.]

1. To join, or fasten together, as by something intervening; to
associate; to combine; to unite or link together; to establish a bond
or relation between.
He fills, he bounds, connect and equals all. Pope.
A man must the connection of each intermediate idea with those that
it connects before he can use it in a syllogism. Locke.

2. To associate (a person or thing, or one's self) with another
person, thing, business, or affair. Connecting rod (Mach.), a rod or
bar joined to, and connecting, two or more moving parts; esp. a rod
connecting a crank wrist with a beam, crosshead, piston rod, or
piston, as in a steam engine.

CONNECT
Con*nect", v. i.

Defn: To join, unite, or cohere; to have a close relation; as, one
line of railroad connects with another; one argument connect with
another.

CONNECTEDLY
Con*nect"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a connected manner.

CONNECTION
Con*nec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. Connexion.]

1. The act of connecting, or the state of being connected; junction;
union; alliance; relationship.
He [Algazel] denied the possibility of a known connection between
cause and effect. Whewell.
The eternal and inserable connection between virtue and hapiness.
Atterbury.

2. That which connects or joins together; bond; tie.
Any sort of connection which is perceived or imagined between two or
more things. I. Taylor.

3. A relation; esp. a person connected with another by marriage
rather than by blood; -- used in a loose and indefinite, and
sometimes a comprehensive, sense.

4. The persons or things that are connected; as, a business
connection; the Methodist connection.
Men elevated by powerful connection. Motley.
At the head of a strong parliamentary connection. Macaulay.
Whose names, forces, connections, and characters were perfectly known
to him. Macaulay.
In this connection, in connection with this subject.

Note: [A phrase objected to by some writers.]

Note: This word was formerly written, as by Milton, with x instead of
t in the termination, connexion, and the same thing is true of the
kindred words inflexion, reflexion, and the like. But the general
usage at present is to spell them connection, inflection, reflection,
etc.

Syn.
 -- Union; coherence; continuity; junction; association; dependence;
intercourse; commerce; communication; affinity; relationship.

CONNECTIVE
Con*nect"ive, a.

Defn: Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.
Connection tissue (Anat.) See Conjunctive tissue, under Conjunctive.

CONNECTIVE
Con*nect"ive, n.

Defn: That which connects. Specifically:
(a) (Gram.) A word that connect words or sentences; a conjunction or
preposition.
(b) (Bot.) That part of an anther which connects its thecæ, lobes, or
cells.

CONNECTIVELY
Con*nect"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In connjunction; jointly.

CONNECTOR
Con*nect"or, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, connects; as:
(a) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes in
pneumatic experiments.
(b) A device for holding two parts of an electrical conductor in
contact.

CONNER
Con"ner, n. Etym: [Cf. Cunner.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the related
American cunner. See Cunner.

CONNEX
Con*nex", v. t. Etym: [L. connexus, p.p. See Connect.]

Defn: To connect. Sir M. Hale.

CONNEXION
Con*nex"ion, n. Etym: [L. connexio: cf. F. connexion.]

Defn: Connection. See Connection.

CONNEXIVE
Con*nex"ive, a.

Defn: See Connective.

CONNING TOWER
Con"ning tow"er, n.

Defn: The shotproof pilot house of a war vessel.

CONNIVANCE
Con*niv"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. connivence, L. conniventia.]

1. Intentional failure or forbearance to discover a fault or
wrongdoing; voluntary oversight; passive consent or co

2. (Law)

Defn: Corrupt or guilty assent to wrongdoing, not involving actual
participation in, but knowledge of, and failure to prevent or oppose
it.

Syn.
 -- See Collusion.

CONNIVE
Con*nive", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Connived; p.pr. & vb.n. Conniving.]
Etym: [L. connivere to shut the eues, connive, fr. con- + (perh.) a
word akin to nicere to beckon, nictare to wink.]

1. To open and close the eyes rapidly; to wink. [Obs.]
The artist is to teach them how to nod judiciously, and to connive
with either eye. Spectator.

2. To close the eyes upon a fault; to wink (at); to fail or forbear
by intention to discover an act; to permit a proceeding, as if not
aware of it; -- usually followed by at.
To connive at what it does not approve. Jer. Taylor.
In many of these, the directors were heartily concurring; in most of
them, they were encouraging, and sometimes commanding; in all they
were conniving. Burke.
The government thought it expedient, occasionally, to connive at the
violation of this rule. Macaulay.

CONNIVE
Con*nive", v. t.

Defn: To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see. [R. &
Obs.] "Divorces were not connived only, but with eye open allowed."
Milton.

CONNIVENCY
Con*niv"en*cy, n.

Defn: Connivance. [Obs.]

CONNIVENT
Con*niv"ent, a. Etym: [L. connivens, p. pr.]

1. Forbearing to see; designedly inattentive; as, connivent justice.
[R.] Milton.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Brought close together; arched inward so that the points meet;
converging; in close contact; as, the connivent petals of a flower,
wings of an insect, or folds of membrane in the human system, etc.

CONNIVER
Con*niv"er, n.

Defn: One who connives.

CONNOISSEUR
Con`nois*seur", n. Etym: [F. connaisseur, formerly connoisseur, fr.
connaître to know, fr. L. cognoscere to become acquainted with; co- +
noscere, gnoscere, to learn to know. See Know, amd cf. Cognizor.]

Defn: One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; a
critical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts.
The connoisseur is "one who knows," as opposed to the dilettant, who
only "thinks he knows." Fairholt.

CONNOISSEURSHIP
Con`nois*seur"ship, n.

Defn: State of being a connoisseur.

CONNOTATE
Con"no*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. con- + notatus, p.p.of notare to mark.
Cf. Connote.]

Defn: To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional;
to include; to imply. Hammond.

CONNOTATION
Con`no*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. connotation.]

Defn: The act of connoting; a making known or designating something
additional; implication of something more than is asserted.

CONNOTATIVE
Con*no"ta*tive ( or ), a.

1. Implying something additional; illative.

2. (Log.)

Defn: Implying an attribute. See Connote. Connotative term, one which
denotes a subject and implies an attribute. J. S. Mill.

CONNOTATIVELY
Con*no"ta*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a connotative manner; expressing connotation.

CONNOTE
Con*note", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Connoted; p.pr. & vb.n. Connoting.]
Etym: [See Connotate, and Note.]

1. To mark along with; to suggest or indicate as additional; to
designate by implication; to include in the meaning; to imply.
Good, in the general notion of it, connotes also a certain
suitableness of it to some other thing. South.

2. (Logic)

Defn: To imply as an attribute.
The word "white" denotes all white things, as snow, paper, the foam
of the sea, etc., and ipmlies, or as it was termed by the schoolmen,
connotes, the attribute "whiteness." J. S. Mill.

CONNUBIAL
Con*nu"bi*al, a. Etym: [L. connubialis, fr. connubium marriage; con-
+ nubere to veil, to marry. See Nupital.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal;
nuptial.
Nor Eve the rites Mysterious of connubial love refused. Milton.
Kind, connubial tenderness. Goldsmith.

CONNUBIALITY
Con*nu`bi*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being connubial; something characteristics of
the conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness.
Some connubialities which had begun to pass between Mr. and Mrs. B.
Dickens.

CONNUMERATION
Con*nu`mer*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. connumeratio, fr. L. connumerare, -
numeratum, to number with.]

Defn: A reckoning together. [R.] Porson.

CONNUSANCE
Con"nu*sance, n. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizance. [Obs.]

CONNUSANT
Con"nu*sant, a. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizant. [Obs.]

CONNUSOR
Con`nu*sor", n. (Law)

Defn: See Cognizor. [Obs.]

CONNUTRITIOUS
Con`nu*tri"tious, a.

Defn: Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food.
[Obs.] Crabb.

CONNY
Con"ny, a. [Canny, Gunning.]

Defn: Brave; fine; canny. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

CONODONT
Co"no*dont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially in
carboniferous rocks. Such fossils are supposed by some to be the
teeth of marsipobranch fishes, but they are probably the jaws of
annelids.

CONOID
Co"noid, n. Etym: [Gr. conoïde.]

1. Anything that has a form resembling that of a cone.

2. (Geom.)
(a) A solid formed by the revolution of a conic section about its
axis; as, a parabolic conoid, elliptic conoid, etc.; -- more commonly
called paraboloid, ellipsoid, etc.
(b) A surface which may be generated by a straight line moving in
such a manner as always to meet a given straight line and a given
curve, and continue parallel to a given plane. Math. Dict.

CONOID
Co"noid

Defn: , Resembling a cone; conoidal.

CONOIDAL
Co*noid"al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. conoïdal.]

Defn: Nearly, but not exactly, conical. Lindley.

CONOIDIC; CONOIDICAL
Co*noid"ic, Co*noid"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a conoid; having the form of a conoid.

CONOMINEE
Co*nom`i*nee", n.

Defn: One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee.
Kirby.

CONQUADRATE
Con*quad"rate, v. t. Etym: [L. conquadratus, p.p. of conquadrare.]

Defn: To bring into a square. [R.] Ash.

CONQUASSATE
Con*quas"sate, v. t. Etym: [L. conquassatus, p.p. of conquassare.]

Defn: To shake; to agitate. [Obs.] Harvey.
 -- Con`quas*sa"tion, n. [Obs.]

CONQUER
Con"quer, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Conquered; p.pr. & vb.n. Conquering.]
Etym: [OF. conquerre, F. conquérir, fr. L. conquirere, -quisitum, to
seek or search for, to bring together, LL., to conquer; con- +
quaerere to seek. See Quest.]

1. To gain or acquire by force; to take possession of by violent
means; to gain dominion over; to subdue by physical means; to reduce;
to overcome by force of arms; to cause to yield; to vanquish. "If
thou conquer Rome." Shak.
If we be conquer'd, let men conquer us. Shak.
We conquered France, but felt our captive's charms. Pope.

2. To subdue or overcome by mental or moral power; to surmount; as,
to conquer difficulties, temptatin, etc.
By winning words to conquer hearts, And make persuasion do the work
of fear. Milton.

3. To gain or obtain, overcoming obstacles in the way; to win; as, to
conquer freedom; to conquer a peace.

Syn.
 -- To subdue; vanquish; overcome; overpower; overthrow; defeat;
rout; discomfit; subjugate; reduce; humble; crush; surmount; subject;
master.
 -- To Conquer, Vanquish, Subdue, Subjugate, Overcome. These words
agree in the general idea expressed by overcome, -- that of bringing
under one's power by the exertion of force. Conquer is wider and more
general than vanquish, denoting usually a succession of conflicts.
Vanquish is more individual, and refers usually to a single conflict.
Thus, Alexander conquered Asia in a succession of battles, and
vanquished Darius in one decisive engagement. Subdue implies a more
gradual and continual pressure, but a surer and more final
subjection. We speak of a nation as subdued when its spirit is at
last broken, so that no further resistance is offered. Subjugate is
to bring completely under the yoke of bondage. The ancient Gauls were
never finally subdued by the Romans until they were completely
subjugated. These words, when used figuratively, have correspondent
meanings. We conquer our prejudices or aversions by a succesion of
conflicts; but we sometimes vanquish our reluctance to duty by one
decided effort: we endeavor to subdue our evil propensities by
watchful and persevering exertions. Subjugate is more commonly taken
in its primary meaning, and when used figuratively has generally a
bad sense; as, his reason was completely subjugated to the sway of
his passions.

CONQUER
Con"quer, v. i.

Defn: To gain the victory; to overcome; to prevail.
He went forth conquering and to conquer. Rev. vi. 2.
The champions resolved to conquer or to die. Waller.

CONQUERABLE
Con*quer*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being conquered or subdued. South.
 -- Con"quer*a*ble*ness, n.

CONQUERESS
Con"quer*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who conquers. Fairfax.

CONQUEROR
Con"quer*or, n. Etym: [OF. conquereor, fr. conquerre,]

Defn: One who conquers. The Conqueror (Eng. Hist.). William the
Norman (1027-1067) who invaded England, defeated Harold in the battle
of Hastings, and was crowned king, in 1066.

CONQUEST
Con"quest, n. Etym: [OF. conquest, conqueste, F. conquête, LL.
conquistum, conquista, prop. p.p. from L. conquirere. See Conquer.]

1. The act or process of conquering, or acquiring by force; the act
of overcoming or subduing opposition by force, whether physical or
moral; subjection; subjugation; victory.
In joys of conquest he resigns his breath. Addison.
Three years sufficed for the conquest of the country. Prescott.

2. That which is conquered; possession gained by force, physical or
moral.
Wherefore rejoice What conquest brings he home Shak.

3. (Feudal Law)

Defn: The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance;
acquisition. Blackstone.

4. The act of gaining or regaining by successful strugle; as, the
conquest of liberty or peace. The Conquest (Eng. Hist.), the
subjugation of England by William of Normandy in 1066.

Syn.
 -- Victory; triumph; mastery; reduction; subjugation; subjection.

CONQUIAN
Con"qui*an, n. (Card Playing)

Defn: A game for two, played with 40 cards, in which each player
tries to form three or four of a kind or sequences.

CONSANGUINEAL
Con`san*guin"e*al, a.

Defn: Of the same blood; related by birth. Sir T. Browne.

CONSANGUINED
Con*san"guined, a.

Defn: Of kin blood; related. [R.] Johnson.

CONSANGUINEOUS
Con`san*guin"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. conguineus; con- + sanguis blood:
cf. F. consanguin. See Sanquine.]

Defn: Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the same
parent or ancestor. Shak.

CONSANGUINITY
Con`san*guin"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. consanguinitas: cf. F.
consanguintit.]

Defn: The relation of person by blood, is distinction from affinity
or relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, lineal
consanguinity; collateral consanguinity.
Invoking aid by the ties of consanguinity. Prescott.

CONSARCINATION
Con*sar`ci*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. consarcinare, -natum, to patch
together.]

Defn: A patching together; patchwork. [Obs.] Bailey.

CONSCIENCE
Con"science, n. Etym: [F. conscience, fr. L. conscientia, fr.
consciens, p.pr. of conscire to know, to be conscious; con- + scire
to know. See Science.]

1. Knowledge of one's own thoughts or actions; consciousness. [Obs.]
The sweetest cordial we receive, at last, Is conscience of our
virtuous actions past. Denham.

2. The faculty, power, or inward principle which decides as to the
character of one's own actions, purposes, and affections, warning
against and condemning that which is wrong, and approving and
prompting to that which is right; the moral faculty passing judgment
on one's self; the moral sense.
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues, And every tongue
brings in a several tale, And every tale condemns me for a villain.
Shak.
As science means knowledge, conscience etymologically means self-
knowledge . . . But the English word implies a moral standard of
action in the mind as well as a consciousness of our own actions. . .
. Conscience is the reason, employed about questions of right and
wrong, and accompanied with the sentiments of approbation and
condemnation. Whewell.

3. The estimate or determination of conscience; conviction or right
or duty.
Conscience supposes the existence of some such [i.e., moral] faculty,
and properly signifies our consciousness of having acted agreeably or
contrary to its directions. Adam Smith.

4. Tenderness of feeling; pity. [Obs.] Chaucer. Conscience clause, a
clause in a general law exempting persons whose religious scruples
forbid compliance therewith, -- as from taking judicial oaths,
rendering military service, etc.
 -- Conscience money, stolen or wrongfully acquired money that is
voluntarily restored to the rightful possessor. Such money paid into
the United States treasury by unknown debtors is called the
Conscience fund.
 -- Court of Conscience, a court established for the recovery of
small debts, in London and other trading cities and districts. [Eng.]
Blackstone.
 -- In conscience, In all conscience, in deference or obedience to
conscience or reason; in reason; reasonably. "This is enough in
conscience." Howell. "Half a dozen fools are, in all conscience, as
many as you should require." Swift.
 -- To make conscience of, To make a matter of conscience, to act
according to the dictates of conscience concerning (any matter), or
to scruple to act contrary to its dictates.

CONSCIENCED
Con"scienced, a.

Defn: Having a conscience. [R.] "Soft-conscienced men." Shak.

CONSCIENCELESS
Con"science*less, a.

Defn: Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.
Conscienceless and wicked patrons. Hookre.

CONSCIENT
Con"scient, a. Etym: [L. consciens, -entis, p.pr.]

Defn: Conscious. [R.] Bacon.

CONSCIENTIOUS
Con`sci*en"tious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consciencieux, LL.
conscientiosus.]

1. Influenced by conscience; governed by a strict regard to the
dictates of conscience, or by the known or supposed rules of right
and wrong; -- said of a person.
The advice of wise and conscientious men. Prescott.

2. Characterized by a regard to conscience; conformed to the dictates
of conscience; -- said of actions.
A holy and conscientious course. Abp. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- Scrupulous; exact; faithful; just; upright.

CONSCIENTIOUSLY
Con`sci*en"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence;
faithfully; accurately; completely.

CONSCIENTIOUSNESS
Con`sci*en"tious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to the
dictates of conscience.

CONSCIONABLE
Con"scion*a*ble, a. Etym: [Irregularly formed fr. conscience.]

Defn: Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just.
Let my debtors have conscionable satisfaction. Sir H. Wotton.

CONSCIONABLENESS
Con"scion*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness. Johnson.

CONSCIONABLY
Con"scion*a*bly, adv.

Defn: Reasonably; justly.

CONSCIOUS
Con"scious, a. Etym: [L. conscius; con- + scire to know. See
Conscience.]

1. Possessing the faculty of knowing one's own thoughts or mental
operations.
Some are thinking or conscious beings, or have a power of thought. I.
Watts.

2. Possessing knowledge, whether by internal, conscious experience or
by external observation; cognizant; aware; sensible.
Her conscious heart imputed suspicion where none could have been
felt. Hawthorne.
The man who breathes most healthilly is least conscious of his own
breathing. De Quincey.

3. Made the object of consciousness; known to one's self; as,
conscious guilt.
With conscious terrors vex me round. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Aware; apprised; sensible; felt; known.

CONSCIOUSLY
Con"scious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mental
operations or actions.

CONSCIOUSNESS
Con"scious*ness, n.

1. The state of being conscious; knowledge of one's own existence,
condition, sensations, mental operations, acts, etc.
Consciousness is thus, on the one hand, the recognition by the mind
or "ego" of its acts and affections; -- in other words, the self-
affirmation that certain modifications are known by me, and that
these modifications are mine. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. Immediate knowledge or perception of the presence of any object,
state, or sensation. See the Note under Attention.
Annihilate the consciousness of the object, you annihilate the
consciousness of the operation. Sir W. Hamilton.
And, when the steam Which overflowed the soul had passed away, A
consciousness remained that it had left. . . . images and precious
thoughts That shall not die, and can not be destroyed. Wordsworth.
The consciousness of wrong brought with it the consciousness of
weakness. Froude.

3. Feeling, persuasion, or expectation; esp., inward sense of guilt
or innocence. [R.]
An honest mind is not in the power of a dishonest: to break its peace
there must be some guilt or consciousness. Pope.

CONSCRIBE
Con*scribe", v. t. Etym: [L. conscribere. See Conscript.]

Defn: To enroll; to enlist. [Obs.] E. Hall.

CONSCRIPT
Con"script, a. Etym: [L. conscriptus, p.p. of conscribere to write
together, to enroll; con- + scribere to write. See Scribe.]

Defn: Enrolled; written; registered. Conscript fathers (Rom. Antiq.),
the senators of ancient Rome. When certain new senators were first
enrolled with the "fathers" the body was called Patres et Conscripti;
afterward all were called Patres conscripti.

CONSCRIPT
Con"script, n.

Defn: One taken by lot, or compulsorily enrolled, to serve as a
soldier or sailor.

CONSCRIPT
Con*script", v. t.

Defn: To enroll, by compulsion, for military service.

CONSCRIPTION
Con*scrip"tion, n. Etym: [L. conscriptio: cf. F. conscription.]

1. An enrolling or registering.
The conscription of men of war. Bp. Burnet.

2. A compulsory enrollment of men for military or naval service; a
draft.

CONSCRIPTION
Con*scrip"tion, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or of the nature of, a conspiration.

CONSECRATE
Con"se*crate, a. Etym: [L. consceratus, p.p. of conscerare to
conscerate; con- + sacrare to consecrate, sacer sacred. See Sacred.]

Defn: Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred.
They were assembled in that consecrate place. Bacon.

CONSECRATE
Con"se*crate, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consecrated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Consecrating.]

1. To make, or declare to be, sacred; to appropriate to sacred uses;
to set apart, dedicate, or devote, to the service or worship of God;
as, to consecrate a church; to give (one's self) unreservedly, as to
the service of God.
One day in the week is . . . consecrated to a holy rest. Sharp.

2. To set apart to a sacred office; as, to consecrate a bishop.
Thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons. Ex. xxix. 9.

3. To canonize; to exalt to the rank of a saint; to enroll among the
gods, as a Roman emperor.

4. To render venerable or revered; to hallow; to dignify; as, rules
or principles consecrated by time. Burke.

Syn.
 -- See Addict.

CONSECRATER
Con"se*cra`ter, n.

Defn: Consecrator.

CONSECRATION
Con`se*cra"tion, n. Etym: [L. consecratio: cf. F. consécration.]

Defn: The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of being
consecrated; dedication.
Until the days of your consecration be at an end. Lev. viii. 33.
Consecration makes not a place sacred, but only solemny declares it
so. South.

CONSECRATOR
Con"se*cra`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which a
person or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes. [Written
also consecrater.]

CONSECRATORY
Con"se*cra*to*ry ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.
The consecratory prayer. Bp. Burnet.

CONSECTANEOUS
Con`sec*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. consectaneus.]

Defn: Following as a matter of course. Blount.

CONSECTARY
Con"sec*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. consectarius, fr. consectari to follow
after eagerly; con- + sectari to follow eagerly, fr. sequi to
follow.]

Defn: Following by consequence; consequent; deducible. [R.]
"Consectary impieties." Sir T. Browne.

CONSECTARY
Con"sec*ta*ry, n.

Defn: That which follows by consequence or is logically deducible;
deduction from premises; corollary. [R.] Milton.

CONSECUTE
Con"se*cute, v. t.

Defn: To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.]
Bp. Burnet.

CONSECUTION
Con`se*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. consecutio. See Consequent.]

1. A following, or sequel; actual or logical dependence. Sir M. Hale.

2. A succession or series of any kind. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton. Month of
consecution (Astron.), a month as reckoned from one conjunction of
the moon with the sun to another.

CONSECUTIVE
Con*sec"u*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consécutif. See Consequent.]

1. Following in a train; suceeding one another in a regular order;
successive; uninterrupted in course or succession; with no interval
or break; as, fifty consecutive years.

2. Following as a consequence or result; actually or logically
dependent; consequential; succeeding.
The actions of a man consecutive to volition. Locke.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallel
progressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutive
fifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden. Consecutive
chords (Mus.), chords of the same kind suceeding one another without
interruption.

CONSECUTIVELY
Con*sec"u*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively.

CONSECUTIVENESS
Con*sec"u*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being consecutive.

CONSENSION
Con*sen"sion, n. Etym: [L. consensio.]

Defn: Agreement; accord. Bentley.

CONSENSUAL
Con*sen"su*al, a. Etym: [See Consent, v. i., and cf. Sensual.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or more
parties.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Excited or caused by sensation, sympathy, or reflex action, and
not by conscious volition; as, consensual motions. Consensual
contract (Law), a contract formed merely by consent, as a marriage
contract.

CONSENSUS
Con*sen"sus, n. Etym: [L. See Consent.]

Defn: Agreement; accord; consent.
That traditional consensus of society which we call public opinion.
Tylor.

CONSENT
Con*sent", v. i. [imp. & p.p. Consented; p.pr. & vb.n Consenting.]
Etym: [F. consentir, fr. L. consentire, -sensum, to feel together,
agree; con- + sentire to feel. See Sense.]

1. To agree in opinion or sentiment; to be of the same mind; to
accord; to concur.
And Saul was consenting unto his death. Acts. viii. 1.
Flourishing many years before Wyclif, and much consenting with him in
jugdment. Fuller.

2. To indicate or express a willingness; to yield to guidance,
persuasion, or necessity; to give assent or approval; to comply.
My poverty, but not my will, consents. Shak.
And whispering "I will ne'er consent," -- consented. Byron.

Syn.
 -- To accede; yield; assent; comply; agree; allow; concede; permit;
admit; concur; acquiesce.
